Code:7
English Term: abandoned industrial site
Definition: Site that cannot be used for any purpose, being contaminated by pollutants, not necessarily radioactive.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:废弃工业场所
Translation:被工业废弃物污染但未必有放射性的场所，不可用作其他用途。

Code:8
English Term: abandoned vehicle
Definition: A vehicle that has been discarded in the environment, urban or otherwise, often found wrecked, destroyed, damaged or with a major component part stolen or missing.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  MDM)
Chinese Term:废弃车辆
Translation:在城市或其他环境中被遗弃的车辆，通常已经损坏或者缺失某个主要部件。

Code: 10193
English Term: abiotic environment
Definition: The non-living components of the environment (rocks, minerals, soil, water and climate).&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:非生物环境
Translation: 环境中无生命成分（例如岩石、矿物质、土地、水和气候）。


#Code: 11
#English Term: abiotic environment
#Definition: The non-living components of the environment (rocks, minerals, soil, water and climate).&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
#Chinese Term: 非生物环境
#Translation: 环境中无生命成分（例如岩石、矿物质、土地、水和气候）。

Code: 13
English Term: absorption (exposure)
Definition: The taking in of fluids or other substances by cells or tissues.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:吸收（暴露）
Translation:细胞或者组织对于液体或者其他物质的摄入


#Code: 91
#English Term: acceptable daily intake
#Definition: The taking in of fluids or other substances by cells or tissues.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
#Chinese Term: 每日允许摄入量
#Translation:细胞或者其他组织对液体或者其他物质的吸收

Code: 91
English Term: acceptable daily intake
Definition: The measurement of the amount of any chemical substance that can be safely consumed by a human being in a day. Calculations are usually based on the maximum level of a substance that can be fed to animals without producing any harmful effects. This is divided by a “safety factor” to allow for the differences between animals and humans and to take account of the variation in human diets.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 每日允许摄入量
Translation:人一天内可安全摄入的化学物质计量。计算结果通常以动物可摄入且不产生有害影响的物质最大量为基础。依据“安全因素”进行划分，以兼顾人类和动物的不同以及不同人的饮食差异。

Code: 20
English Term: acceptable risk level
Definition: Level of risk judged to be outweighed by corresponding benefits or one that is of such a degree that it is considered to pose minimal potential for adverse effects.&#10;(Source: EPAGLOa)
Chinese Term:可接受风险水平
Translation: 超出相应收益的风险水平，或可能产生最小负效应的风险水平。

Code: 22
English Term: access road
Definition: Any street or narrow stretch of paved surface that leads to a specific destination, such as a main highway.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:通路
Translation: 通向指定终点的街道或者比较狭窄路面，比如高速公路。

Code: 10980
English Term: access to administrative documents
Definition: The legal right of access to administrative documents or the opportunity to avail oneself of the same.&#10;(Source: BLACKa)
Chinese Term:访问管理文档
Translation:访问管理文档的合法权限或者利用管理文档的机会。

Code: 23
English Term: access to culture
Definition: The ability, right and permission to approach and use, or the general availability of resources that transmit the beliefs, customs, artistic activity and knowledge of a people.&#10;(Source: PPP / RHW)
Chinese Term:文化普及
Translation:接触和使用文化的能力、权力或许可，或传播信仰、习俗、文化活动以及民族知识所用资源的一般利用率。

Code: 3477
English Term: access to information
Definition: The ability, right and permission to approach and use, or the general availability of resources that convey knowledge.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息访问
Translation: 接触和使用文化的能力、权力或许可，或传播知识所用资源的一般利用率。。


Code: 13285
English Term: access to the courts
Definition: The right of citizens to access to the organs of the governments where justice is administered.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:法庭申诉
Translation:市民向政府审判机构申诉的权力。

Code: 24
English Term: access to the sea
Definition:
Chinese Term:出入海洋
Translation:

Code: 25
English Term: accident
Definition: An unexpected occurrence, failure or loss with the potential for harming human life, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: TOE / HMD)
Chinese Term:事故
Translation:出乎意料的事件、失败、或者损失，并且有伤害人类生命、财产或者环境的潜在可能。


Code: 30
English Term: accident source
Definition: The cause or origin of an unexpected occurrence, failure or loss with the potential for harming human life, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: OED / HMD)
Chinese Term:意外发生源
Translation:出乎意料的事件、失败、或者损失的产生源，此类事件有伤害人类生命、财产或者环境的潜在可能。

Code: 28
English Term: accidental release of organisms
Definition: Genetically engineered organisms that are released in the environment by mistake; once released they may exhibit some previously unknown pathogenicity, might take over from some naturally occurring bacteria (possibly having other positive functions which thus are lost) or pass on some unwanted trait to such indigenous bacteria. There is also concern that an uncontrolled genetic mutation could produce a form with hazardous consequences for the environment.&#10;(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term:生物体的意外释放
Translation:由于失误而释放到环境中的基因工程生物体；一旦释放，可能会呈现一些未知的病原体，取代一些自然存在的微生物（也许由于具有其他积极作用而消失），或者将一些特性强加给本源微生物。同时需要关注，失控的基因突变可能会给环境造成灾难性的后果。

Code: 10002
English Term: accounting
Definition: Method of recording all the transactions affecting the financial condition of a business or organization.
Chinese Term:会计学
Translation:记录所有影响企业或组织经济状况的交易的理论。

Code: 13239
English Term: accounting system
Definition: The system of setting up, maintaining, and auditing the books of a firm and of analyzing its financial status and operating results.
Chinese Term:会计系统
Translation:用来建立、维护和审计企业的帐目并分析其经济状况和运营结果的系统。

Code: 36
English Term: accumulation in body tissues
Definition:
Chinese Term:在人体组织的积累
Translation:

Code: 38
English Term: accumulator
Definition: A rechargeable device for storing electrical energy in the form of chemical energy, consisting of one or more separate secondary cells.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:蓄电池
Translation:一种以化学能量的形式存储电量的可以充电设备，包含一个或多个独立的副电池。

Code: 52
English Term: acid
Definition: A compound capable of transferring a hydrogen ion in solution.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:酸
Translation:一种可以在溶液中传递氢离子的化合物

Code: 42
English Term: acid deposition
Definition: A type of pollution which washes out of the atmosphere as dilute sulphuric and nitric acids. It tends to be a regional rather than a global phenomenon, linked to particular industrial activities and meteorological conditions. It includes rain, more than normally acidic snow, mist, sleet, fog, gas and dry particles. It upsets the balance of nature, disrupting ecosystems, and destroys forests and woodlands, plants and crops; kills aquatic life by altering the chemical balance of lakes and rivers and corrodes building materials and fabrics. The pollutants are caused principally by discharges from power station chimneys of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides released by burning fossil fuels, coal and oil.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:酸沉积
Translation:一种将冲刷大气层后产生硝酸或硫酸污染。酸沉淀往往是地域性而不是全球性的，与某种特定的工业活动或者气象条件相关。酸沉淀包括雨，以及酸性含量较高的酸性雪、雾、冻雨、气体以及干性微粒。它破坏了自然的平衡，破坏生态系统；毁坏了森林、草地、植物以及农作物；改变了江河湖水的化学平衡，进而杀死了水生物；侵蚀了建筑材料和纤维。这种污染主要来源于电厂在燃烧矿物燃料、煤和油时从烟囱排出的二氧化硫和氮氧化物。

Code: 51
English Term: acid rain
Definition: Rain having a pH less than 5.6. The acidity results from chemical reactions occurring when water, sulphur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides, generally released by industrial processes, are chemically transformed into sulphuric and nitric acids.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:酸雨
Translation: pH值小于5.6的雨。这种酸性来源于当工业生产方法中释放的水、二氧化硫和氮氧化物通过化学作用转换成硝酸和硫酸时所产生的化学反应。


Code: 44
English Term: acidification
Definition: Addition of an acid to a solution until the pH falls below 7.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:酸化
Translation:在溶液中加入酸直到其pH值降到7以下。

Code: 47
English Term: acidity
Definition: The state of being acid that is of being capable of transferring a hydrogen ion in solution.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term:酸性
Translation:处于酸的状态，具有在溶液中携带氢离子的能力。

Code: 48
English Term: acidity degree
Definition: The amount of acid present in a solution, often expressed in terms of pH.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:酸度
Translation:溶液的含酸量，往往用pH值来衡量。

Code: 11927
English Term: acoustic comfort
Definition:
Chinese Term:声舒适
Translation:

Code: 54
English Term: acoustic filter
Definition: A device employed to reject sound in a particular range of frequencies while passing sound in another range of frequencies.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:滤声器
Translation:一种用来过滤某个频率范围的声音同时允许另一个频率范围的声音通过的设备。

Code: 55
English Term: acoustic insulation
Definition: The process of preventing the transmission of sound by surrounding with a nonconducting material.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:隔音
Translation:通过在外面报上绝缘物质以阻止声音传播的过程。

Code: 57
English Term: acoustic level
Definition: Physical quantity of sound measured, usually expressed in decibels.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term:声强
Translation:衡量声音的物理量，通常用分贝表示。

Code: 59
English Term: acoustic property
Definition: The characteristics found within a structure that determine the quality of sound in its relevance to hearing.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:声学特性
Translation:决定某种材质传播声音质量的结构特征。

Code: 11896
English Term: acoustical quality
Definition: The characteristics of a confined space that determines its ability to enable music and speech to be heard clearly within it.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term:声学质量
Translation:一个有限空间的特性，决定了音乐和其他声音能够在其中被清楚听到的能力。

Code: 60
English Term: acoustics
Definition: The science of the production, transmission and effects of sound.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:声学
Translation:研究声音的产生、传播以及影响的科学。


Code: 79
English Term:act
Definition:1) Something done voluntarily by a person, and of such a nature that certain legal consequences attach to it.&#10;2) Documents, decrees, edicts, laws, judgments, etc.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:行为；法令
Translation:1）一个人自愿完成的事情，需要为此承担某种法律后果。&#10;2）文件、法令、布告、法律、判决等。

Code: 66
English Term:actinide
Definition:A group of 15 radioactive elements some of which occur naturally while others are produced in nuclear reactions. They include plutonium, americium and neptunium. The health hazard presented by the actinides, if they are released into the environment, comes from the potency of their radioactive characteristics. They are alpha-emitters, and therefore can cause intense localized damage in tissues if absorbed into the body.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:锕类
Translation:一组包含15种放射性元素的化学元素，其中一部分是自然存在，另一部分是在核反应中产生的，包括钚、镅、镎等。如果将锕类释放到环境中，其放射性特性将带来巨大的灾难。这些阿尔法射线一旦被身体吸收，将会给组织带来局部的剧烈损伤。


Code: 68
English Term:actinium
Definition:A radioactive element of the actinide series, occurring as a decay product of uranium. It is used as an alpha particle source and in neutron production.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:锕
Translation:锕类中的一种放射性元素，通常是铀的一种衰变物。它被用作阿尔法粒子产生源并产生中子。

Code: 71
English Term:action group
Definition:A collection of persons united to address specific sociopolitical or socioeconomic concerns.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:行动组
Translation:联合起来从事某些特定的社会政治或者社会经济学事务的一组人。

Code: 72
English Term:activated carbon
Definition:A powdered, granular or pelleted form of amorphous carbon characterized by a very large surface area per unit volume because of an enormous number of fine pores.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:活性炭
Translation:一种粉末状、小颗粒或者丸状的无定形碳。因为有大量的细孔，其每单位体积都具有较大的表面积。

Code: 73
English Term:activated sludge
Definition:Sludge that has been aerated and subjected to bacterial action; used to speed breakdown of organism matter in raw sewage during secondary waste treatment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:活性泥
Translation:有细菌作用的充气软泥，用来在废物的二次处理中加快下水道污物中有机物质的分解。

Code: 77
English Term: active participation
Definition:The involvement, either by an individual or a group of individuals, in their own governance or other activities, with the purpose of exerting influence.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 积极参与
Translation: 个人或团体为扩大影响而参与的事件

Code: 10922
English Term: active population
Definition:The number of people available and eligible for employment within a given enterprise, region or nation.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:活动人口
Translation:在指定企业、地区或者国家中可已并适合雇佣的人数。

Code: 81
English Term:adaptable species
Chinese Term:适应性强的物种

Code: 83
English Term:adaptation period
Chinese Term:适应期
Code: 87
English Term:addition polymer
Definition:A polymer formed by the chain addition of unsaturated monomer molecules, such as olefins, with one another without the formation of a by-product, as water; examples are polyethylene, polypropylene and polystyrene.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:加成聚合物
Translation:由不饱和单体分子链加而成的聚合物（如烯烃），其互相聚合并且没有副产物（比如水），如聚乙烯、聚丙烯和聚苯乙烯。
Code: 86
English Term:additional packaging
Definition:Additional packaging around the normal sales packaging. For example as protection against theft or for the purpose of advertising; the customer may leave the additional packaging in the shop for waste collection.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:附加包装
Translation:在正常销售包装外的附加包装。可用于防盗或广告宣传，消费者可以将附加包装留在商店中以供回收。

Code: 88
English Term:additive
Definition:Substances mixed in small quantities with another product to modify its chemical or physical state. Additives are used to make food look visually more attractive, in the case of colouring agents, as well as to preserve and extend the life of the product.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:添加剂
Translation:少量混合在另一种物质中以改变其化学或者物理状态的物质。添加剂可使食物看上去更具吸引力（如色素添加剂），同时也可维持和延长产品的有效保质期。


Code: 2760
English Term:adequate food supply
Definition:A quantity of nutriments that meets fundamental nutritional requirements and is provided to a person, group or community on a continuing basis.&#10;(Source: NOV)
Chinese Term:足量的食物供应
Translation:满足基本营养需求的营养物数量级，可持续供给个人、团体或者社区。

Code: 90
English Term:adhesive
Definition:Substance used for sticking objects together, such as glue, cement, or paste.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:粘合剂
Translation:用来将物体粘合在一起的物质，比如胶水、水泥或者浆糊。

Code: 95
English Term:administration
Definition:The management or direction of the affairs of a public or private office, business or organization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:行政部门
Translation:公共或私人事务、业务或组织事务的管理和指导部门

Code: 100
English Term:administrative body
Definition:Any governmental agency or organization charged with managing and implementing regulations, laws and government policies.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:行政体
Translation:主要负责管理和实现规则、法律以及政府政策的任何政府机构或者组织。

Code: 14932
English Term:administrative boundary
Definition:A limit or border of a geographic area under the jurisdiction of some governmental or managerial entity.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:行政界线
Translation:政府或管理实体管辖的地区边界。


Code: 103
English Term:administrative competence
Definition:The skill, knowledge, qualification, capacity or authority to manage or direct the affairs of a public or private office, business or organization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:行政能力
Translation:管理或者指导公共/私人、业务或组织事务的技能、知识、素质、能力或者权力。

Code: 11568
English Term:administrative court (administration)
Definition:An independent, specialized judicial tribunal in which judges or officials are authorized by a government agency to conduct hearings and render decisions in proceedings between the government agency and the persons, businesses or other organizations that it regulates.&#10; (Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:行政法庭
Translation:一种独立且特殊的司法法庭，其中的法官和官员由政府机构任命，负责其管辖的政府机构与个人、企业或其他组织之间诉讼程序中的听证以及判决。

Code: 10981
English Term:administrative deed
Definition:Any formal and legitimate step taken or decision made on matters of policy by a chief or other top-level officer within an organization.&#10;(Source: DAM)
Chinese Term:行政行为
Translation:由组织的总裁或高级主管根据政策所采取的正式且合法的措施或决定。


Code: 105
English Term:administrative fiat
Definition:An authoritative decree, sanction or order issued from an office with executive or managerial authority, without necessarily having the force of law or its equivalent.&#10;(Source: RHW / BLD)
Chinese Term:行政许可
Translation:由具有行政权或管理权的机关发出的官方法令、许可或要求，不需要具有法律效力或同等效力。


Code: 11497
English Term:administrative instructions
Definition:Education in the theories and practices of managing an office, business or organization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:行政指导
Translation:管理政府机构、企业或组织的理论和实践教育。


Code: 107
English Term:administrative jurisdiction
Definition:The extent, power or territory in which an office with executive or managerial authority administers justice or declares judgments.&#10;(Source: RHW / BLD)
Chinese Term:行政管辖权
Translation:执法或裁决机构的执法或管理权限、权力和范围。

Code: 108
English Term:administrative law
Definition:Body of law created by administrative agencies in the form of rules, regulations, orders and decisions to carry out regulatory powers and duties of such agencies.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:行政法
Translation:由行政机关制定的，以条例、规章、法令或决定的形式来实施管理权利和机关职责的部门法

Code: 13231
English Term:administrative occupation
Chinese Term:行政职业

Code: 13289
English Term:administrative organisation
Chinese Term:行政机构

Code: 111
English Term:administrative procedure
Chinese Term:管理程序

Code: 112
English Term:administrative sanction
Definition:Generally, any formal official imposition of penalty or fine; destruction, taking, seizure, or withholding of property; assessment of damages, reimbursement, restitution, compensation, costs, charges or fees; requirement, revocation or suspension of license; and taking other compulsory or restrictive action by organization, agency or its representative.
Chinese Term:行政处罚
Translation:官方正式给予的处罚或罚金；销毁、获取、没收或扣留财产；评估应给付的损害、赔偿、归还、恢复原状、补偿、成本费、收费或酬金的数额；许可证的吊销、停止或附加条件；其他组织、机构或其代理的强制性或限定性行为。

Code: 120
English Term: adsorption
Definition:The physical or chemical bonding of molecules of gas, liquid or a dissolved substance to the external surface of a solid or the internal surface, if the material is porous, in a very thin layer.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:吸附
Translation:渗透性材料的外表面或内表面对气体、液体分子或溶解性物质的物理性或化学性结合。


Code: 121
English Term:adult
Definition:A person who is fully grown, developed or of a specified age.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:成人
Translation:一个生长、发育完全的人，或达到指定年龄的人。


Code: 122
English Term:adult education
Definition:Any instruction or training, informal or formal, which is geared to persons of mature age, regardless of previous education, and typically offered by university extension programs, employers, correspondence courses or community groups.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:成人教育
Translation:任何适合成年人的正式或非正式的指导或训练，不考虑其过去的教育。通常由大学推广项目、雇主、函授课程或社团组织提供。

Code: 126
English Term:advertisement
Definition:The action of drawing public attention to goods, services or events, often through paid announcements in newspapers, magazines, television or radio.&#10;(Source: C / RHW)
Chinese Term:广告
Translation:通常指通过报纸、杂志、电视或电台的付费公告将公众注意力吸引到商品、服务或事件上的行为。
Code: 130
English Term:advice
Definition:An official notice, opinion, counsel or recommendation that is optional or at the receiver’s discretion.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:通告
Translation:一种可选择的或由接受者个人决定的官方通知、意见、劝告或推荐。


Code: 132
English Term:aeration
Definition:Exposition to the action of air.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:通风
Translation:暴露于空气活动中。

Code: 135
English Term:aerial photograph
Definition:An image of the ground surface made on a light-sensitive material and taken at a high altitude from an aircraft, spacecraft or rocket.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term:航摄照片
Translation:用光敏材料从飞机、宇宙飞船或火箭等高海拔处拍摄的地面图像。


Code: 14165
English Term:aerial photography
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 航摄照片
Translation:



Code: 143
English Term:aerobic condition
Definition:Life common to the majority of animal and plants species requiring the presence of oxygen.&#10;(Source: LAROUSa)
Chinese Term:有氧状态
Translation:绝大部分动物和植物物种的生存需要氧气。

Code: 146
English Term:aerobic process
Definition:A process requiring the presence of oxygen.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:好氧过程
Translation:需要氧气存在的过程。


Code: 12599
English Term:aerobic treatment
Definition:The introduction of air into sewage so as to provide aerobic biochemical stabilization during a detention period.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:需氧处理
Translation:在滞留期将空气引入下水道以便提供有氧生化储备。


Code: 148
English Term:aerobiology
Definition:The study of the atmospheric dispersal of airborne fungus spores, pollen grains, and microorganisms; and, more broadly, of airborne propagules of algae and protozoans, minute insects such as aphids, and pollution gases and particles which exert specific biologic effects.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:空气生物学
Translation:研究空气传播的真菌、孢子、花粉粒和微生物在大气中的分布；广义上研究能发挥特殊生物效应的海藻和原生体的空气繁殖，微小昆虫（例如蚜虫），以及污染气体和微粒。

Code: 151
English Term:aerodynamic noise
Definition:Acoustic noise caused by turbulent airflow over the surface of a body.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:气动噪声
Translation:强烈气流经过物体表面产生的噪声。

Code: 157
English Term:aerosol
Definition:A gaseous suspension of ultramicroscopic particles of a liquid or a solid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:浮质
Translation:液体或固体超微颗粒的气态悬浮物。

Code: 163
English Term:aesthetics
Definition:Considerations, values, and judgements pertaining to the quality of the human perceptual experience (including sight, sound, smell, touch, taste, and movement) evoked by phenomena or components of the environment.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:美学
Translation:由环境的组成或现象所引发的对人类感性经验（包括视觉、听觉、嗅觉、触觉、味觉和运动）的性质的思考、评价和判断。

Code: 167
English Term:afforestation
Definition:1) Establishment of a new forest by seeding or planting of nonforested land.&#10;2) The planting of trees on land which was previously used for other uses than forestry.&#10;3) The planting of trees in an area, or the management of an area to allow trees to regenerate or colonize naturally, in order to produce a forest.&#10;(Source: MGH / WRIGHT / ALL)
Chinese Term:造林
Translation:1）在没有树木的土地播种或种植以培养出新的树林。&#10;2）在非林区的其他用途用地上种植树木。&#10;3）在土地上种植树木，或者对土地进行管理以允许树木自然重生或生长并形成树林。

Code: 170
English Term:Africa
Definition:The second largest of the continents, on the Mediterranean in the north, the Atlantic in the west, and the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden, and Indian Ocean in the east. The Sahara desert divides the continent unequally into North Africa and Africa south of Sahara. The largest lake is Lake Victoria and the chief rivers are the Nile, Niger, Congo, and Zambezi. The hottest continent, Africa has vast mineral resources, many of which are still undeveloped.&#10;(Source: CED / AMHER)
Chinese Term:非洲
Translation:第二大洲，北临地中海，西濒大西洋、红海和亚丁湾，东有印度洋。撒哈拉沙漠将非洲不均等地分为北非和撒哈拉南部非洲地区。最大的湖是维多利亚湖，主要的河流是尼罗河、尼日尔、刚果和赞比西河。非洲是最热的洲，有大量矿产资源，其中很多还尚未开发。

Code: 171
English Term:afterburning
Definition:An afterburner is a gadget fitted to the exhaust flues of furnaces and also to the exhaust systems of motor vehicles. They remove polluting gases and particles, which are the result of incompletely combusted fuel, by incineration and break down other chemical molecules associated with combustion into inert chemicals.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:二次燃烧
Translation:后燃器是用于锅炉烟道或机动车排气系统的配件，可以通过焚化和分解将化学分子氧化为惰性化学物质，从而清除燃料不充分燃烧后产生的有毒气体和微粒。

Code: 173
English Term:age
Definition:The period of time that a person, animal or plant has lived or is expected to live.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:年龄
Translation:人、动物或植物已经存活或预期存活的时间长度。
Code: 12511
English Term:aggregate extraction
Definition:Extraction of crushed rock or gravel screened to sizes for use in road surfaces, concretes, or bituminous mixes.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:筛选骨材
Translation:对用于马路表面、混凝土或沥青混合物的碎石或沙砾的大小进行筛选。
Code: 21
English Term:agreement (administrative)
Definition:Definition:A coming together of minds; a coming together in opinion or determination; the coming together in accord of two minds on a given proposition. In law, a concord of understanding and intention between two or more parties with respect to the effect upon their relative rights and duties, of certain past or future facts or performances. The consent of two or more persons concerning respecting the transmission of some property, right, or benefits, with the view of contracting an obligation, a mutual obligation. The union of two or more minds in a thing done or to be done; a mutual assent to do a thing.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:协议（管理）
Translation:思想的一致；意见或决定的一致；根据两个已给建议达成的一致。在法律上,指双方或多方之间就他们之间的权利和义务、过去或未来的事实或行为达成一致的认知和期望。两人或多人之间就转让某种财产、权利、利益的一种承诺，并签订相互遵守的法律责任。对于一件已完成或将完成的事情的两种或多种意见的结合。对做某事达成共同见解。
Code: 183
English Term:agreement (contract)
Definition:An agreement, convention, or promise of two or more parties, by deed in writing, signed, and delivered, by which either of the parties pledges himself to the other that something is either done, or shall be done, or shall not be done, or stipulates for the truth of certain facts.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:协议（合约）
Translation:一种协议、惯例、或双方/多方的承诺，通过书写、签署、送达的方式所建立的约定，其中一方应向另一方承诺可以做某事、必须做某事或不应该做某事，或保证特定事实的真相。



Code: 182
English Term:agreement (legal)
Definition:The coming together in accord of two minds on a given proposition. In law, a concord of understanding and intention between two or more parties with respect to the effect upon their relative rights and duties, of certain past or future facts or performances. The consent of two or more persons concerning respecting the transmission of some property, right, or benefits, with the view of contracting an obligation, a mutual obligation.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:协议(法律)
Translation: 根据两个已给建议达成的一致。.在法律上,指双方或多方之间就他们之间的权利和义务、过去或未来的事实或行为达成一致的认知和期望。两人或多人之间就转让某种财产、权利、利益的一种承诺，并签订相互遵守的法律责任。

Code: 185
English Term:agricultural biotechnology
Chinese Term:农业生物技术
Code: 186
English Term:agricultural building
Definition:The buildings and adjacent service areas of a farm.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:农业建筑
Translation:农场的建筑及相邻服务区。

Code: 11157
English Term:agricultural disaster
Definition:Violent, sudden and destructive change in the environment either affecting or caused by land cultivation or the raising of crops or livestock.&#10;(Source: ISEP / APD)
Chinese Term:农业灾害
Translation:影响土地耕种和农作物/牲畜生长或由此引发的猛烈的、突然的、破坏性的环境变化。

Code: 191
English Term:agricultural ecology
Chinese Term:农业生态学
Code: 193
English Term:agricultural economics
Definition:An applied social science that deals with the production, distribution, and consumption of agricultural or farming goods and services.&#10;(Source: AGP)
Chinese Term:农业经济学
Translation:关于农业产品和农业服务的生产、分配和消费的应用社会科学.


Code: 194
English Term:agricultural effluent
Definition:Any solid, liquid or gas that enters the environment as a by-product of agricultural activities.
Chinese Term:农业排放物
Translation:作为农业活动的副产品而被排入环境中的任何固体、液体或气体。
Code: 195
English Term:agricultural engineering
Definition:A discipline concerned with developing and improving the means for providing food and fiber for mankind’s needs.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:农业工程
Translation:关于发展和提高食物和纤维生产方法以满足人类需求的学科。


Code: 197
English Term:agricultural equipment
Definition:Machines utilized for tillage, planting, cultivation, and harvesting of crops.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:农业设备
Translation:用来耕作、种植、养殖和收获农作物的机器。


Code: 199
English Term:agricultural exploitation
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:农业开发


Code: 13193
English Term:agricultural holding
Definition:As defined by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, an agricultural holding is simply a basic unit for agricultural production.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:农业财产
Translation:根据联合国粮食及农业组织的定义，农业财产是农业生产的基本单位。



Code: 11165
English Term:agricultural hydraulics
Definition:Science and technology involved in the management of water resources, in the control of erosion and in the removal of unwanted water.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:农业水力学
Translation:可用于水资源管理、腐蚀控制和污水处理的科学技术。

Code: 202
English Term:agricultural land
Definition:Land used primarily for the production of plant or animal crops, including arable agriculture, dairying, pasturage, apiaries, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, animal husbandry and the necessary lands and structures needed for packing, processing, treating, or storing the produce.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:农用土地
Translation:主要用于植物或动物农作物生产的土地，包括耕种农业、乳品业、畜牧业、养蜂场、园艺业、花卉业，葡萄栽培、畜牧业和包装、加工、处理或储存产品所必需的土地和建筑。

Code: 204
English Term:agricultural landscape
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 农业景观

Code: 206
English Term:agricultural legislation
Definition:Agricultural law is a blend of traditional fields of law including the law of contracts, bailments, torts, criminal, environmental, property, nuisance, wills and estates, and tax law. As such, it is a gathering of statutory and common law.&#10;(Source: FREEAD)
Chinese Term:农业法规
Translation:农业法融合了多种传统法律，包括合同法、委托法、民事侵权法、刑法、环境法、财产法、妨害法、遗嘱法、财产法和税法。因此，它是法规和通用法律的集合。

Code: 207
English Term:agricultural machinery
Definition:Machines utilized for tillage, planting, cultivation and harvesting of crops. Despite its benefits in increasing yields, mechanisation has clearly had some adverse environmental effects: deep ploughing exposes more soil to wind and water erosion; crop residues can be removed as opposed to ploughing back into the soil; removal of residues can lead to a serious loss of organic content in the soil, which may increase the risk of soil erosion.&#10;(Source: MGH / DOBRIS)
Chinese Term:农业机械
Translation:用来耕种、种植、养殖和收获农作物的机器。尽管有利于农业增产，但机械化仍然会对环境产生负面影响：深耕使更多土壤暴露于风蚀和水蚀侵害；农作物残余可能被重新犁回到土壤中；清除残余物可能导致土地严重丧失有机成分，从而加大土壤被侵蚀的风险。
Code: 208
English Term:agricultural management
Definition:The administration or handling of soil, crops and livestock.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:农业管理
Translation:土地、农作物和牲畜的管理。
Code: 210
English Term:agricultural method
Definition:Practices and techniques employed in agriculture to improve yields and productivity. Over the last few decades they have undergone big changes: tilling, sowing and harvesting have become increasingly mechanised, and the methods of applying fertilisers and pesticides have become more sophisticated. Many changes within the agricultural system can be summed up by “intensification”. The result and aim of intensification has been to achieve increases in production, yields and labour productivity in agriculture.&#10;(Source: DOBRIS)
Chinese Term:农业方法
Translation:农业中用于提高产量和生产力的方法和技术。在过去的几十年里，农业方法发展迅速：耕种、播种和收获已经逐渐机械化，施肥和施用杀虫剂的方法更加复杂。农业系统的许多变化都可以归纳为“强化”。强化的结果和目标已经使得农业生产、产量和劳动生产力大幅提高。

Code: 212
English Term:agricultural pest
Definition:Insects and mites that damage crops, weeds that compete with field crops for nutrients and water, plants that choke irrigation channels or drainage systems, rodents that eat young plants and grain, and birds that eat seedlings or stored foodstuffs.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:农业害虫
Translation:损害农作物的昆虫和小虫、与农作物争夺营养和水分的野草、堵塞灌溉渠道或排水系统的植物、幼苗和谷物的啮齿类动物以及吃秧苗或余粮的鸟类。

Code: 213
English Term:agricultural planning
Definition:The development of plans and measures to achieve greater and more efficient output from agriculture; a sound agricultural policy should be able to reconcile three basic needs: the production of food and agricultural products, the protection of the environment and the maintenance of the socio-economic structure of rural areas.&#10;(Source: DOBRISa)
Chinese Term:农业规划
Translation:用于实现更多更有效的农业产出的计划和措施；一个健全的农业政策必须协调三类基本需求：农产品和食物的产量、环境保护以及维持农村地区的社会经济结构。






Code: 215
English Term:agricultural policy
Definition:A course of action adopted by government or some other organization that determines how to deal with matters involving the cultivation of land; raising crops; feeding, breeding and raising livestock or poultry; and other farming issues.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:农业政策
Translation:政府或其他组织采纳的措施，决定如何处理土地耕种、农作物种植、牲畜或家禽饲养及其他农业问题。

Code: 216
English Term:agricultural pollution
Definition:The liquid or solid wastes from farming, including: runoff from pesticides, fertilizers, and feedlots; erosion and dust from plowing; animal manure and carcasses, crop residues, and debris.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:农业污染
Translation:农业活动产生的液体或固体废物，包括杀虫剂、化肥、饲育场的污染流出物、耕犁产生的侵蚀和灰尘、动物肥料和尸体以及农作物残留和垃圾。

Code: 220
English Term:agricultural product
Definition:The output of the cultivation of the soil.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:农产品
Translation:土壤种植的产物。

Code: 219
English Term:agricultural production
Chinese Term:农业生产

Code: 13192
English Term:agricultural real estate
Definition:Property of agricultural land and anything permanently affixed to the land, such as buildings, fences, etc.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 农业不动产
Translation:农业用地和土地上任何永久附属物（如建筑、栅栏等）的所有权。

Code: 224
English Term:agricultural storage
Definition:Any deposit or holdings of farm products, fertilizers, grains, feed and other related supplies in facilities or containers, often to prevent contamination or for times when production cannot meet demand.&#10;(Source: AGP)
Chinese Term:农业储存
Translation:农产品、，化肥、谷物、饲料的交存或持有，以及其它用来防止污染或预防生产无法满足需求时所需的相关设施或容器。

Code: 13136
English Term:agricultural structure
Definition:The buildings, machinery, facilities, related to agricultural production.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:农业结构
Translation:与农业生产相关的建筑、机器和设施。

Code: 11158
English Term:agricultural undervaluation
Definition:The underrating or diminishing in value of agricultural or farming goods and services.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:农业低估
Translation:对农业产品和农业服务价值的低估。

Code: 229
English Term:agricultural waste
Definition:Unusable materials, liquid or solid, that result from agricultural practices, such as fertilizers, pesticides, crop residue (such as orchard prunings) and cattle manure.&#10;(Source: HMD / MHD)
Chinese Term:农业废弃物
Translation:由农业实践活动，例如化肥，杀虫剂，农作物残留（如果园剪枝）和家畜肥料产生的不可用的材料、液体或固体

Code: 232
English Term:agriculture
Definition:The production of plants and animals useful to man, involving soil cultivation and the breeding and management of crops and livestock.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:农业
Translation:生产对人类有用的动物和植物，包括土地耕种以及农作物和家畜的饲养和管理。

Code: 233
English Term:agriculture and cattle industry
Definition:Large scale growing of crops and livestock grazing for profit.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:农业和畜牧业
Translation:用于盈利的大规模农作物种植和家畜养殖






Code: 235
English Term:agriculture framework plan
Definition:A formulated or systematic method for the management of soil, crops and livestock.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:农业纲要计划
Translation:管理土壤、农作物和牲畜的普通或系统化方法。

Code: 13168
English Term:agri-foodstuff
Definition:Industry dealing with the production, processing, and supply of agricultural food products.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term:农业粮食
Translation:生产、处理和供给农业食物产品的产业。

Code: 7354
English Term:agritourism
Definition:Holidays organized in a farm: meals are prepared with natural products and guests are entertained with handicraft, sporting and agricultural activities.&#10;(Source: DIFID)
Chinese Term:观光农业
Translation:在农场度过的假期：膳食由天然产品加工而成，参观者的娱乐项目是手工艺活动、运动和农业活动。

Code: 237
English Term:agrochemical
Definition:Any substance or mixture of substances used or intended to be used for preventing, destroying, repelling, attracting, inhibiting, or controlling any insects, rodents, birds, nematodes, bacteria, fungi, weeds or other forms of plant, animal or microbial life regarded as pests.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:农用化学品
Translation:用于预防、消灭、驱除、吸引、抑制或控制被认定为害虫的昆虫、啮齿类动物、线虫、细菌、真菌、野草或其它形式的植物、动物或微生物的物质或其混合物。

Code: 239
English Term:agroforestry
Definition:The interplanting of farm crops and trees, especially leguminous species. In semiarid regions and on denuded hillsides, agroforestry helps control erosion and restores soil fertility, as well as supplying valuable food and commodities at the same time.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:农业林学
Translation:农作物和树木的隔间种植，尤其是豆类物种。在半干旱地区和裸露的山坡，农业林学可以帮助控制侵蚀和储存土地养料，同时提供有价值的食物和商品。

Code: 240
English Term:agroindustry
Definition:Industry dealing with the supply, processing and distribution of farm products.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:农用工业
Translation:供应、处理和分配农产品的工业。

Code: 241
English Term:agrometeorology
Definition:The study of the interaction between meteorological and hydrological factors, on the one hand, and agriculture in the widest sense, including horticulture, animal husbandry and forestry, on the other.&#10;(Source: EURMET)
Chinese Term:农业气象学
Translation:一方面指研究气象和水文因素之间相互作用的学科；另一方面指研究广义上的农业的科学，包括园艺、畜牧业和林业等。

Code: 11234
English Term:agronomic value
Definition:The monetary or material worth at which buyers and sellers agree to do business for agricultural goods and services.&#10;(Source: AGP / RHW)
Chinese Term:农事价值
Translation:购买者和销售者同意交易农业产品或农业服务的货币或原料价值。

Code: 11152
English Term:agronomy
Definition:The principles and procedures of soil management and of field crop and special-purpose plant improvement, management, and production.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:农学
Translation:管理土地以及改良、管理和生产大田作物和特殊用途植物的原则和程序。

Code: 11153
English Term:agrosystem
Definition:Ecosystem dominated by the continuous agricultural intervention of man.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term:农业系统
Translation:人类持续的农业干涉占主导地位的生态系统。




Code: 13302
English Term:aid policy
Definition:A course of action adopted and pursued by government or some other organization that promotes or determines the allocation of assistance, support or relief, often from one country to another.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:援助政策
Translation:由政府或其他组织采纳或从事的、旨在促进或决定援助、支持或救济的分配的行动，通常从一个国家到另一个国家。

Code: 243
English Term:AIDS
Definition:The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is caused by HIV-virus manifested by opportunistic infections and/or malignancies, and the mortality rate is very high. The syndrome results from a breakdown of the body’s disease-fighting mechanism that leaves it defenceless against infections, such as pulmonary tuberculosis, Pneumocystis pneumonia, certain blood infections, candidiasis, invasive cervical cancer, Kaposi’s sarcoma or any of over 20 other indicator diseases. No effective treatment is available. A striking feature of AIDS is the wide spectrum and frequency of infections with life-threatening pathogens seldom seen in normal hosts. The illness may begin with insidious signs and symptoms, and the process may be more diffuse than when the same conditions are seen in other immune-compromised patients. Four patterns of disease occur in AIDS patients. The pulmonary pattern, the central nervous system pattern, the gastrointestinal pattern, and the pattern of fever of unknown origin. Most patients who recover from a given opportunistic infection subsequently either have a relapse or develop a new type of infection. Many patients continue to have a wasting syndrome and experience such infections as oral thrush. Feelings of depression and isolation are common among AIDS patients and can be intensified if health care workers display fear of the syndrome.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:艾滋病
Translation:获得性免疫缺陷综合症是由HIV病毒引起的，表现为机会性感染和/或恶性肿瘤，死亡率十分高。这种综合症能够破坏人体免疫机制，使之对于类似肺结核、卡氏肺囊虫性肺炎、血液感染、念珠菌症、侵入性子宫癌、卡波希氏肉瘤或任何超过二十种指标的疾病失去抵抗力。目前没有有效的治疗方法。艾滋病的一个典型特征是传染病的宽频谱携带了正常寄主上很少见到致命病原体。这种疾病初期可能伴有临床信号和症状，这个过程在一些抵抗力差的病人身上更容易扩散。艾滋病病人可能患有四类疾病，即肺病类、中枢神经系统、，胃肠类和不明原因的发烧类。大多数病人从某种感染中恢复后，最终旧病复发，或者发生新的感染。许多病人会继续发生耗竭综合症并感染类似于鹅口疮的口腔念珠菌病。艾滋病人普遍感觉消沉和孤立；如果医疗工作者表现出对这种综合症的恐惧，那么这种感觉将会加剧。



Code: 245
English Term:air
Definition:A predominantly mechanical mixture of a variety of individual gases forming the earth’s enveloping atmosphere.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:空气
Translation:由多种独立的气体组成的覆盖地球大气层的主要的机械混合物。


Code: 250
English Term:air conditioning
Definition:A system or process for controlling the temperature and sometimes the humidity and purity of the air in a house, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:空气调节装置
Translation:控制房间温度、空气湿度和纯度等的系统或程序。
Code: 262
English Term:air movement
Definition:Air movements within the Earth’s atmospheric circulation; also called planetary winds. Two main components are recognized: first, the latitudinal meridional component due to the Coriolis force (a deflecting motion or force discussed by G.G. de Coriolis in 1835. The rotation of the Earth causes a body moving across its surface to be deflected to the right in the N hemisphere and to the left in the S hemisphere); and secondly, the longitudinal component and the vertical movement, resulting largely from varying pressure distributions due to differential heating and cooling of the Earth’s surface.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:空气流动
Translation:地球大气循环中的空气流动，也叫行星风。主要由两个力分量引起：第一，纬度子午线上的力分量即地球自转偏向力（由G.G. de Coriolis在1835年提出的一种偏向运动或偏向力：地球的自传导致横越其表面的物体移动在北半球的时候向右偏转，在南半球向左偏转）；第二，经度纵向分量和垂直运动，主要由地球表面温度差分加热和冷却造成的不同压力分布所引起。
Code: 263
English Term:air pollutant
Definition:Definition:Any pollutant agent or combination of such agents, including any physical, chemical, biological, radioactive substance or matter which is emitted into or otherwise enters the ambient air and can, in high enough concentrations, harm humans, animals, vegetation or material.&#10;(Source: LEE / TOE)
Chinese Term: 空气污染物
Translation: 污染物的代理或代理组合，包括任何发射或进入周围空气的物理、化学、生物或放射性物质，其浓度高到足以伤害到人类、动物、植物或其它物质。

Code: 265
English Term:air pollution
Definition:Presence in the atmosphere of large quantities of gases, solids and radiation produced by the burning of natural and artificial fuels, chemical and other industrial processes and nuclear explosions.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:空气污染
Translation: 因天然或人工燃料的燃烧、化学和其他工业流程和核爆炸等而产生的存在于大气中的大量气体、固体或放射性物质。



Code: 270
English Term:air quality
Definition:The degree to which air is polluted; the type and maximum concentration of man-produced pollutants that should be permitted in the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: ALL / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:空气质量
Translation:空气受污染的程度；允许排入大气中的人造污染物的种类和最大浓度。

Code: 272
English Term:air quality control
Definition:The measurement of ambient air-pollution concentrations in order to determine whether there is a problem in a given region.&#10;(Source: CONFERa)
Chinese Term:空气质量控制
Translation:测量周围空气的污染浓度，以判断特定地区是否有空气污染问题。

Code: 274
English Term:air quality management
Definition:Regulate and plan and work toward the accomplishment of completion of stated goals, objectives and mission pertaining to air quality.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term:空气质量管理
Translation:规范、计划和实施能够实现关于空气质量既定目标与任务。

Code: 14973
English Term:air quality monitoring
Definition:Regular checking and recording of air quality in a given area. The following pollutants must be considered: carbon monoxide, benzene, butadiene, lead, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and particulates.&#10;(Source: DOCMMU)
Chinese Term:空气质量检测
Translation:检测和记录指定地区的空气质量。需要考虑以下污染物：一氧化碳、苯、丁二烯、铅、二氧化硫、二氧化氮和微粒状物质。

Code: 277
English Term:air safety
Definition:Any measure, technique or design intended to reduce the risk of harm posed by either moving vehicles or projectiles above the earth’s surface or pollutants to the earth’s atmosphere.&#10;(Source: AHB / TOE)
Chinese Term:空气安全
Translation:为降低因飞行器、火箭或污染物对地球大气造成损害的风险而采取的措施、技术或设计。

Code: 281
English Term:air temperature
Definition:The temperature of the atmosphere which represents the average kinetic energy of the molecular motion in a small region and is defined in terms of a standard or calibrated thermometer in thermal equilibrium with the air.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:气温
Translation:大气的温度，用来表示一个小区域内分子运动的平均动能，并根据在与空气达到热平衡后的标准或校准的温度计来定义。

Code: 282
English Term:air traffic
Definition:Aircraft moving in flight or on airport runways.
Chinese Term:航空交通
Translation:航空器在飞行中或机场跑道上的移动

Code: 285
English Term:air traffic law
Definition:Definition:International rules and conventions relating to air transportation.&#10;(Source: DEFRA)
Chinese Term:航空法
Translation:空中运输相关的国际准则和惯例


Code: 286
English Term:air traffic regulation
Chinese Term:航空条例

Code: 289
English Term:air transportation
Definition: The use of aircraft, predominantly airplanes, to move passengers and cargo.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:航空运输
Translation:使用飞机等航空器来运送乘客和货物

Code: 11918
English Term: airborne noise
Definition:Noise caused by the movement of large volumes of air and the use of high-pressure air.&#10;(Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 空气传播噪声
Translation:大量气体移动或使用高压气体所产生的噪音

Code: 253
English Term:aircraft
Definition:Any structure, machine, or contrivance, especially a vehicle, designed to be supported by the air, either by the dynamic action of the air upon the surfaces of the structure or object or by its own buoyancy.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:航空器
Translation:任何由空气支撑的结构、机器或装置，特指交通工具；可以由装置和物体表面的空气运动支撑，也可以由自身浮力支撑。

Code: 255
English Term:aircraft engine emission
Definition:The formation and discharge of gaseous and particulate pollutants into the environment, especially the stratosphere, chiefly from airplanes, helicopters and other high-altitude aircrafts.&#10;(Source: MHE)
Chinese Term:航空器引擎排放
Translation: 形成气状与粒状污染物并将其排放至环境中，尤其是平流层中；主要来自飞机、直升飞机和其他高空航空器。

Code: 256
English Term:aircraft noise
Definition:Effective sound output of the various sources of noise associated with aircraft operation, such as propeller and engine exhaust, jet noise, and sonic boom.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:航空器噪声
Translation:航空器运转所产生的各种噪音输出，噪音来源包括螺旋桨、引擎排气、喷射噪音和超声波音爆等


Code: 267
English Term:airport
Definition:A landing and taking-off area for civil aircraft, usually with surfaced runways and aircraft maintenance and passenger facilities.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:机场
Translation:民用飞行器着陆和起飞的地方，通常包含铺设路面的跑道、飞行器维修点和乘客使用设施

Code: 279
English Term:airspace planning
Definition:The activity of organizing or preparing for transportation through the atmosphere above earth’s surface.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:空域规划
Translation:通过地球表面上空的大气层进行的运输准备或组织活动

Code: 290
English Term:air-water interaction
Definition:The physical processes at the air-water interface: momentum, heat and mass transfer across the air-water interface, mixing of surface water by wind stress and wave breaking, directional wave spectra and wave forces on offshore structures. The air-water interaction is measured by the turbulence and gas exchanges resulting from the mixing of the water column by wind.&#10;(Source: WATER / CEIS)
Chinese Term:空气-水相互作用
Translation:在空气与水的分界面上的物理过程：动力、热量和块状物质穿过空气与水的分界面，由风力和碎波引起的水面混合，使方向波谱和波力作用于海上结构物。空气—水相互作用通过风引起的水柱混合所产生的乱流和气体交换进行度量。

Code: 293
English Term:alarm
Definition:Signalling an impending danger in order to call attention to some event or condition.&#10;(Source: CED / AMHER)
Chinese Term:警报
Translation:对于即将发生的危险提出警示，以唤起对于某个事件或状态的注意。

Code: 298
English Term:alcohol
Definition:A group of organic chemical compounds composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The molecules in the series vary in chain length and are composed of a hydrocarbon plus a hydroxyl group. Alcohol includes methanol and ethanol.&#10;(Source: EIADOE)
Chinese Term:醇
Translation:由碳、氢和氧组成的有机化学混合物。这一系列分子具有不同的链长度，由一个碳氢化合物加上一个氢氧基构成。醇包括甲醇和乙醇。

Code: 301
English Term:alga
Definition:Simple, green, aquatic plants without stems, roots or leaves. They are among the microscopic organisms that form the start of the food chain. Algae are found floating in the sea and fresh water, but they also grow on the surface of damp walls, rocks, the bark of trees and on soil. They contain chlorophyll and other pigments that let them grow by photosynthesis. On land, algae can be useful in improving the fertility of soil by nitrogen fixation.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:藻类
Translation:简单的绿色水生植物，没有茎 、根和叶。它们属于构成食物链最开始的基础微生物。藻类漂浮于海水和淡水上，也可以在潮湿的墙壁、岩石、树皮表面及土壤上生长。它们含有的叶绿素及其他色素能够使其利用光合作用进行生长。在陆地上，藻类可通过固氮作用改善土壤的肥力。

Code: 303
English Term:algal bloom
Definition:Excessive and rapid growth of algae and other aquatic plants when they are stimulated to grow too quickly by pollution. It takes place when there are too many nutrients in the water and is aggravated when accompanied by a rise in temperature. Although the algae grow quickly they soon die because they have swallowed up all the water’s nutrients. As they decompose they tend to rise to the surface and form a green slime. Algal bloom have increased because higher levels of nitrogen and phosphates from agricultural areas have leached from the fields into water courses.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:藻华
Translation:藻类与其他水生植物因受到污染刺激而快速生长所造成的快速过量生长。这种现象在水中有过多营养的情况下会出现，在气温升高的情况下会恶化。虽然藻类生长很快，但也会因水中的营养被耗尽而很快死亡。死亡的海藻被分解时会上升至水面形成一层绿色的黏质物。藻华现象已经因为农业用地中高浓度的氮和磷深入水道而变得更加严重。

Code: 305
English Term:algicide
Definition:Any substance or chemical applied to kill or control algal growth.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:除藻剂
Translation:可用于杀死藻类或控制藻类生长的物质或化学品。

Code: 308
English Term:alicyclic compound
Definition:Any substance composed of two or more unlike atoms held together by chemical bonds characterized by straight-chained, branched or cyclic properties.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:脂环族化合物
Translation:任何由直链、分支或环状的化学键链接的含有两个或多个相异原子的物质。

Code: 309
English Term:alicyclic hydrocarbon
Definition:A class of organic compounds containing only carbon and hydrogen atoms joined to form one or more rings and having the properties of both aliphatic and cyclic substances.&#10;(Source: MGH / RRDA)
Chinese Term:脂环族碳氢化合物
Translation:仅由碳和氢原子所组成的一环或多环有机化合物，同时具有脂肪族和环状化合物的性质

Code: 10215
English Term:alignment
Definition:The selection and detailed layout of public transport routes in the light of construction, operation, service, technology, and economic criteria.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:定线
Translation:根据建筑、操作、服务、技术和经济准则所指定的公共交通路线的选择和细节设置图。

Code: 311
English Term:aliphatic compound
Definition:Any organic compound of hydrogen and carbon characterized by a straight chain of the carbon atoms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:脂肪族化合物
Translation:任何具有碳原子直链的碳氢有机化合物。


Code: 312
English Term:aliphatic hydrocarbon
Definition:Hydrocarbons having an open chain of carbon atoms, whether normal or forked, saturated or unsaturated.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:脂肪族碳氢化合物
Translation:具有碳原子的开链碳氢化合物，不论其具有直链或支链，饱和或不饱和。

Code: 313
English Term:alkali land
Definition:Any geomorphic area, often a level lake-like plain, with soil containing a high percentage of mineral salts, located especially in arid regions.&#10;(Source: MHD / RHW)
Chinese Term:碱性土地
Translation: 土壤含有高百分比的矿物质盐的任何地貌区域，通常是平如湖泊般的平原，其，常位于干旱地区。

Code: 319
English Term:alkali soil
Definition:Soil that contains sufficient exchangeable sodium to interfere with water penetration and crop growth, either with or without appreciable quantities of soluble salts.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:碱性土壤
Translation:含有足量可交换的钠离子以影响水分渗透和农作物生长的土壤，可能含有一定浓度的可溶性盐类。

Code: 12366
English Term:alkaline battery
Definition:A primary cell that uses an alkaline electrolyte, usually potassium hydroxide, and delivers about 1.5 volts at much higher current rates than the common carbon-zinc cell. Also known as alkaline-manganese cell.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:碱性电池
Translation:通常使用氢氧化钾作为碱性电解液的原电池，能够以远高于普通碳锌电池电流的速率输出1.5伏特电压。通常也被称作碱锰电池。

Code: 322
English Term:alkane
Definition:Paraffins. A homologous series of saturated hydrocarbons having the general formula CnH2n+2. Their systematic names end in -ane. They are chemically inert, stable, and flammable. The first four members of the series (methane, ethane, propane, butane) are gases at ordinary temperatures; the next eleven are liquids, and form the main constituents of paraffin oil; the higher members are solids. Paraffin waxs consists mainly of higher alkanes.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term:烷烃
Translation:链烷烃，同源系列的饱和碳氢化合物，其通式为CnH2n+2。该体系化学物的英文名称都以-ane结尾。它们具有惰性、稳定性和可燃性。该体系的前四个烷烃化合物（甲烷、乙烷、丙烷、丁烷）在常温下为气体；后十一个为液体，是石蜡油的主要成分。石蜡主要由高烷烃化合物构成。

Code: 326
English Term:alkyl compound
Definition:Compound containing one or more alkyl radicals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:烷基化合物
Translation:含有一个或多个烷基的化合物

Code: 329
English Term:allergen
Definition:Any antigen, such as pollen, a drug, or food, that induces an allergic state in humans or animals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:过敏原
Translation:任何引起人类或动物过敏症状的抗原，如花粉、药物或食物。






Code: 332
English Term:allergy
Definition:A condition of abnormal sensitivity in certain individuals to contact with substances such as proteins, pollens, bacteria, and certain foods. This contact may result in exaggerated physiologic responses such as hay fever, asthma, and in severe enough situations, anaphylactic shock.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:过敏
Translation:某些个体在接触蛋白质、花粉、细菌和特定食物等物质后所产生的异常敏感症状。这类接触可能导致过度的生理反应（如枯草热、哮喘）和其他严重症状（如过敏性休克）。

Code: 335
English Term:allocation
Definition:The assignment or allotment of resources to various uses in accord with a stated goal or policy.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:调配
Translation:依照规定的目标和政策，将资源根据不同用途进行指派或分配。

Code: 336
English Term:allocation plan
Definition:The formulation and application of such measures as laws, economic plans, urbanism, etc., to ensure a balance between the population’s needs and the country’s resources.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:调配计划
Translation: 法律、经济计划、都市化等措施的规划与应用，以确保人口需求与国家资源的平衡。

Code: 13560
English Term:allowance
Chinese Term:津贴


Code: 340
English Term:alloy
Definition:Any of a large number of substances having metallic properties and consisting of two or more elements; with few exceptions, the components are usually metallic elements.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:合金
Translation:任何金属特性且由两种或两种以上元素组成的大量物质；除了极少数特例外，其组成成分通常都是金属元素。

Code: 10915
English Term:all-terrain vehicle
Definition:A land carriage so constructed that it can be used on any kind of road or rough terrain and can be operated for many purposes, such as carrying goods, transporting the injured, conveying passengers, etc.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term:越野车
Translation:一种具有特殊构造、能在任何公路或不平地形上使用的陆地车辆，其用途广泛，可用于运载货物、运输伤员、输送乘客等。
Code: 10170
English Term:alluvial plain
Definition:A level or gently sloping tract or a slightly undulating land surface produced by extensive deposition of alluvium, usually adjacent to a river that periodically overflows its banks; it may be situated on a flood plain, a delta, or an alluvial fan.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:冲积平原
Translation:由冲积土广泛沉淀而产生的水平或微倾斜的大片土地或微起伏的地表，通常与周期性泛滥的江河相连；可能位于洪泛平原、三角洲或冲积扇。

Code: 341
English Term:alluvion
Definition:An overflowing; an inundation or flood, especially when the water is charged with much suspended material.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:洪灾
Translation:泛滥；淹没或洪水。特别是当水中充满许多悬浮物时。

Code: 342
English Term:alpha radiation
Definition:A stream of alpha particles which are ejected from many radioactive substances having a penetrating power of a few cm in air but can be stopped by a thin piece of paper.&#10;(Source: MGH / PITT)
Chinese Term:阿尔法射线
Translation:许多放射性物质发射出的、能穿透几厘米的空气但会被一张薄纸挡住的阿尔法粒子流。

Code: 349
English Term:alternative material
Definition:Materials employed in the place of others which are more dangerous for the environment, such as phosphate substitutes in detergents.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:代用材料
Translation:被用来取代对环境危害更大的物质的材料，如清洁剂中磷酸盐的替代物
Code: 351
English Term:alternative technology
Definition:Technology that, as an alternative to resource-intensive and wasteful industry, aims to utilize resources sparingly, with minimum damage to the environment, at affordable cost and with a possible degree of control over the processes.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:替代技术
Translation:一种用来替代资源密集型和浪费型工业的技术，旨在节约资源，并在可负担的成本范围内尽可能控制其过程，使其对环境的危害最小化。

Code: 10140
English Term:altitude
Definition:1) In general, a term used to describe a topographic eminence. &#10;2) A specific altitude or height above a given level. &#10;3) In surveying, the term refers to the angle between the horizontal and a point at a higher level.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:海拔
Translation:1)通常是描述地形高度的名词&#10;2)高于既定水平的海拔或高度&#10;3)在测量学中，该术语指水平线和高点之间的角度


Code: 352
English Term:alumina
Definition:A natural or synthetic oxide of aluminum widely distributed in nature, often found as a constituent part of clays, feldspars, micas and other minerals, and as a major component of bauxite.&#10;(Source: RHW / INP)
Chinese Term:氧化铝
Translation:广泛存在于自然界中的一种天然或合成铝的氧化物，通常作为黏土、长石、云母和其他矿物质的组成部分，也是铝土岩的主要成分。

Code: 353
English Term:aluminium
Definition:A light white metal, ductile and malleable, and a good conductor of electricity. It occurs widely in nature in clays and is the third most abundant element in the Earth’s crust. It is extracted mainly from bauxite by electrolysis of a molten mixture of purified bauxite and cryolite. The metal and its alloys are used for aircraft, cooking utensils, electrical apparatus, and for many other purposes where its light weight is an advantage. Aluminium became implicated as an environmental health hazard in the 1980s on two counts. Biomedical scientists looking for possible causes of Alzheimer’s disease, the premature senility indicated by loss of memory and confusion, found a circumstantial link with aluminium. The theory is a controversial one.&#10;(Source: UVAROV / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:铝
Translation:白色轻金属，具延展性和良好的导电性。存在于自然界之的黏土矿物中，是地壳中含量第三高的元素。它主要是由萃取铁铝氧化物得到，而铁铝氧化物是电解含有熔融的纯铁铝氧化物和冰晶石的混合物而得。因铝具有质轻的优点，故此金属及其合金常使用于航空器、烹调器具、电器设备和许多其他用途。自20世纪80年代起，铝被认为会对环境健康造成两个方面的危害。生物医学家正在寻找引起老年痴呆症的原因，其过早衰老意味着记忆的丧失和混乱，而这种病症可能与铝有关联，惟此理论仍具争议性。

Code: 354
English Term:aluminium container
Definition:A can or box made of aluminium in which material is held or carried.&#10;(Source: AMHERa)
Chinese Term:铝制容器
Translation:由铝制成用来存放和携带物品的罐子或盒子
Code: 355
English Term:aluminium content
Definition:Amount of aluminium contained in a solution.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:铝含量
Translation:溶液中铝的含量

Code: 356
English Term:aluminium industry
Definition:A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the mining and processing of aluminum.&#10;(Source: ENC)
Chinese Term:铝业
Translation:一种以开采和加工铝的商业企业集合为主的经济体制。

Code: 360
English Term:alveolus
Definition:A tiny, thin-walled, capillary-rich sac in the lungs where the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide takes place. Also called air sac.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:肺泡
Translation:肺中存在的微小的、薄壁的、有丰富毛细血管的囊，可在此进行氧和二氧化碳的交换。也被称为气囊。

Code: 363
English Term:amalgam
Definition:A solution of a metal in mercury.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:汞合金
Translation:将金属溶解在汞中得到的合金


Code: 367
English Term:Americas
Definition:The landmasses and islands of North America, South America, Mexico, and Central America included in the Western Hemisphere.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:美洲
Translation:西半球的大陆和岛屿，包括北美洲、南美洲、墨西哥和中美洲。

Code: 370
English Term:Ames test
Definition:A bioassay developed by Bruce N. Ames in 1974, performed on bacteria to assess the capability of environmental chemicals to cause mutations.&#10;(Source: BIOTGL / KORENa)
Chinese Term:埃姆斯实验
Translation:1974年由Bruce N. Ames提出的一种生物检测方法，通过细菌在环境中化学物质发生突变的能力进行评估。

Code: 372
English Term:amine
Definition:One of a class of organic compounds which can be considered to be derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogens by organic radicals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:氨类
Translation:氨上一个或多个氢被有机基取代所形成的有机化合物。

Code: 373
English Term:amino acid
Definition:Organic compounds containing a carboxyl group (-COOH) and an amino group (-NH2). About 30 amino acids are known. They are fundamental constituents of living matter because protein molecules are made up of many amino acid molecules combined together. Amino acids are synthesized by green plants and some bacteria, but some (arginine, histidine, lysine. threonine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, valine, phenylalanine, tryptophane) cannot be synthesized by animals and therefore are essential constituents of their diet. Proteins from specific plants may lack certain amino acids, so a vegetarian diet must include a wide range of plant products.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:氨基酸
Translation:含有羟酸基（-COOH）和氨基(-NH2)的有机化合物。已知的氨基酸约有30种。蛋白质分子是由许多氨基酸分子所结合，因此，氨基酸是生物的基本构成物质。氨基酸由绿色植物和一些细菌合成，但也有一些氨基酸（如精氨酸、组氨酸、赖氨酸、苏氨酸、蛋氨酸、异亮氨酸、亮氨酸、缬氨酸、苯基丙氨酸和色氨酸）是动物本身无法合成的。因此，这些氨基酸是动物饮食中的重要成分。某些植物蛋白可能缺乏某些氨基酸，因此，素食者应食用各种各样的植物产品。

Code: 375
English Term:ammonia
Definition:A colorless gaseous alkaline compound that is very soluble in water, has a characteristic pungent odour, is lighter than air, and is formed as a result of the decomposition of most nitrogenous organic material.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:氨
Translation:无色的碱性气体，易溶于水，有特殊的刺激性气味，比空气轻，是大多数含氮有机物分解后产生的


Code: 378
English Term:ammonification
Definition:Addition of ammonia or ammonia compounds, especially to the soil.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:氨化
Translation:加入氨或氨化合物，特别指加在土壤中
Code: 379
English Term:ammonium
Definition:The radical NH4+.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:铵
Translation:NH4+基

Code: 387
English Term:amphibian
Definition:A class of vertebrate animals characterized by a moist, glandular skin, gills at some stage of development, and no amnion during the embryonic stage.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:两栖动物
Translation:属于脊椎动物纲，具有湿软、腺状的皮肤，以及进化至某一程度的腮，在胚胎时期没有羊膜。

Code: 388
English Term:amusement park
Definition:An open-air entertainment area consisting of stalls, side shows etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:游乐场
Translation:设有摊位和表演等的开放式游乐区域。


Code: 391
English Term:anaerobic condition
Definition:A mode of life carried on in the absence of molecular oxygen.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:厌氧条件
Translation:在缺少氧分子的情况下仍然能够维持生命的形态

Code: 394
English Term:anaerobic process
Definition:A process from which air or oxygen not in chemical combination is excluded.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:厌氧过程
Translation:除化合外，没有空气或氧气参与的过程。

Code: 12600
English Term:anaerobic treatment
Definition:Breakdown of organic material without the presence of oxygen, a treatment which permanently removes the unpleasant odour of many organic wastes so that they can be used on agricultural land.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:厌氧处理
Translation:在无氧条件下进行的有机物分解。这种方法可去彻底除许多有机废弃物的恶臭，以便将处理后的废弃物在农用土地上使用。

Code: 397
English Term:analysis
Definition:Examination or determination.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:分析
Translation:试验或测定

Code: 398
English Term:analysis programme
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:分析程序

Code: 399
English Term:analytical chemistry
Definition:The branch of chemistry dealing with techniques which yield any type of information about chemical systems.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:分析化学
Translation:化学的一个分支，利用技术得出化学系统的各类信息

Code: 401
English Term:analytical equipment
Definition:Equipment employed in analytical techniques.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:分析设备
Translation:分析技术中所使用的设备

Code: 402
English Term:analytical method
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:分析方法


Code: 406
English Term:anatomy
Definition:The science concerned with the physical structure of animals and plants.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:解剖学
Translation:关于动植物生理结构的科学

Code: 411
English Term:angiosperm
Definition:The class of seed plants that includes all the flowering plants, characterized by the possession of flowers. The ovules, which become seeds after fertilization, are enclosed in ovaries. The xylem contains true vessels. The angiospermae are divided into two subclasses: Monocotyledoneae and Dycotiledoneae.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:被子植物
Translation:一种包括所有的有花植物的种子植物纲。胚珠在子房内，受精后成为种子。木质部包含导管。被子植物门分为两个亚纲：单子叶植物纲和双子叶植物纲。

Code: 412
English Term:angling
Definition:The art or sport of catching fish with a rod and line and a baited hook or other lure, such as a fly.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:垂钓
Translation:用竿、线以及悬挂鱼饵（如苍蝇）的鱼钩，或其他诱惑物捕鱼的一项艺术或运动。


Code: 450
English Term:animal
Definition:Any living organism characterized by voluntary movement, the possession of cells with noncellulose cell walls and specialized sense organs enabling rapid response to stimuli, and the ingestion of complex organic substances such as plants and other animals.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:动物
Translation:具有自主移动能力、非纤维细胞壁细胞、快速反应刺激的专门感觉器官，且能摄取复杂有机物（例如植物和其他动物）的任何生物。

Code: 415
English Term:animal behaviour
Definition:Behaviour of animals in their normal environment, including all the processes, both internal and external, by which they respond to changes in their environment.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term:动物行为
Translation:正常环境下动物的行为，包括动物对环境改变所产生的内在和外在反应。

Code: 11868
English Term:animal biology
Definition:The scientific study of the natural processes of animals.&#10;(Source: CAMBa)
Chinese Term:动物生物学
Translation:研究动物的自然过程的科学

Code: 10651
English Term:animal conservatory
Definition:Areas for the conservation of rare or endangered animal species.&#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term:动物保护区
Translation:保护稀有或濒临灭绝的动物物种的区域

Code: 10510
English Term:animal corridor
Definition:Line corridors (roads, paths, and hedgerows) which lack interior habitat but may serve as movement groups for organisms. Corridors may also provide an efficient migratory pathway for animals. The presence or absence of breaks in a corridor may be a very important factor in determining the effectiveness of its conduit and barrier functions.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:动物廊道
Translation:没有内部栖息地但是可以为生物体提供族群移动的线状廊道（如公路、小径和灌木篱墙的）。廊道还可为动物提供有效的迁徙途经。廊道有无中断是决定其通道的有效性和阻碍作用的重要因素。

Code: 10511
English Term:animal damage
Definition:Harm caused to the environment by animals as, for instance, in the case of overgrazing, trampling, etc. Overgrazing damage is reduced by properly located watering facilities to decrease daily travel by livestock. Rotation of grazing areas allows time for recovery of grass. Some land can be easily restored if grazing is allowed only during one season. Animals may cause damage to crops when agriculture land borders on virgin territory or game reserves. In addition wild animals may bring disease in valuable domestic herds. Cattle overstocking has caused serious degradation of habitat, and cattle raising is thus, to some extent, counterproductive.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:动物伤害
Translation: 动物对环境造成的危害，例如由过度的放牧、践踏等。过度放牧的危害可通过适当的放置供水区以减少家畜每日的行经路线的方法加以降低。放牧区轮流开放可以让草有恢复的机会。某些土地只允许放牧一季的时间，这些土地则较容易恢复。当农地的边缘位于未开发区域或在保护区中，则可能对作物造成危害。除此之外，野生动物可能会为有价值的家畜带来疾病。牛只过多已经造成严重的栖地危害，因此，对牛只饲养的产量也会有造成一定程度的不良影响。

Code: 417
English Term:animal disease
Chinese Term:动物疾病

Code: 10512
English Term:animal displacement
Definition:The habit of many animal species of moving inside their habitats or of travelling, during migrations, to different biotopes, often considerable distances apart; in aquatic environments displacements can occur horizontally or vertically while in terrestrial environments animal populations that breed in the alpine or subalpine zones in summer, move to lower levels in winter; animal displacements usually follow circadian rhythms and are related to the necessity of finding breeding, resting and feeding areas.&#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term:动物位移
Translation: 许多动物有迁入其栖息地或经过长途旅行迁移到别的生态环境中的习性。在水生环境中的动物位移通常是水平或垂直方向上的；而在陆生环境中，夏季在高山带或亚高山带繁殖的动物群体会在冬季迁移到较低的地方；动物位移通常遵循其生理周期，同时也与它们是否有必要寻找繁殖、休眠和捕食地有关。



Code: 419
English Term:animal dung as fuel
Definition:Excrement from animals that may be dried and burned to generate energy or converted to liquid or gaseous fuels, such as methane, through chemical processes.&#10;(Source: GET)
Chinese Term: 动物粪便燃料
Translation: 动物的排泄物，可以通过干燥或燃烧产生能源，或通过化学过程将其转变成液态或气态的燃料（如甲烷）。


Code: 420
English Term:animal ecology
Definition:A study of the relationships of animals to their environment.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:动物生态学
Translation:对动物及其与周围环境的关系的研究。

Code: 13557
English Term:animal excrement
Definition:Waste matter discharged from the body of an animal.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:动物排泄物
Translation:从动物身体中排泄出的废物。

Code: 421
English Term:animal experiment
Definition:Investigation carried out in animals for research purposes.&#10;(Source: LEEa)
Chinese Term:动物实验
Translation:在动物身上实行的用于研究的调查，实验。

Code: 423
English Term:animal foodstuff
Definition:Any crops or other food substances for animal consumption.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term:动物粮食
Translation:用来喂养动物的任何作物或者其他食物。

Code: 448
English Term:animal for slaughter
Definition:Animals bred and killed for the production of food.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:食肉用动物
Translation:饲养用来生产食物的动物。

Code: 425
English Term:animal genetics
Definition:The scientific study of the hereditary material of animals for theoretical and practical applications such as increased population, conservation and disease research.&#10;(Source: EEN)
Chinese Term:动物基因
Translation: 关于动物遗传物质的科学性研究，有理论的和实际的应用，如：族群增加、保育和疾病研究。

Code: 10523
English Term:animal habitat
Definition:The locality in which an animal naturally grows or lives. It can be either the geographical area over which it extends, or the particular station in which an animal is found.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:动物生存地
Translation:动物自然生长和生存的地方。 此处是动物所遍及的地理区域，或者指某种动物被发现的特别位置。 

Code: 13321
English Term:animal health
Chinese Term:动物健康

Code: 10666
English Term:animal heritage
Definition:The sum of the earth’s or a particular region’s non-human, non-vegetable, multicellular organisms viewed as the inheritance of the present generation, especially animal species deemed worthy of preservation and protection from extinction.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:动物遗产
Translation: 地球上或特定地区非人类、非植物、多细胞有机体的数量，它们被视为目前世代所留的遗产，尤其是濒临灭绝而应被保护和保存的动物。

Code: 428
English Term:animal housing
Definition:Any kind of shelter, refuge affording protection to animals.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:动物住所
Translation:可以给动物提供保护的任意庇护所。

Code: 429
English Term:animal husbandry
Definition:A branch of agriculture concerned with the breeding and feeding of domestic animals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:动物耕种
Translation:与家养动物的繁殖和喂养有关的一个农业分支。


Code: 10003
English Term:animal life
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:动物生命

Code: 432
English Term:animal manure
Definition:Animal excreta collected from stables and barnyards with or without litter; used to enrich the soil.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:动物肥料
Translation: 从禽畜饲养棚舍或牧场所收集的动物排泄物，无论含有残余物与否可被用来肥沃土壤。


Code: 5237
English Term:animal migration
Definition:Movements that particular animals carry out regularly often between breeding places and winter feeding grounds.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:动物迁徙
Translation:某些特定的动物在繁殖地与冬季给食地之间的常规性迁移。

Code: 434
English Term:animal noise
Definition:Noise caused by animals such as dogs kept in kennels or in private homes as pets.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:动物噪音
Translation:动物比如在宠物园或者家里被当作宠物饲养的狗，所发出的噪音。

Code: 435
English Term:animal nutrition
Definition:Ingestion, digestion and/or assimilation of food by animals.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:动物营养
Translation:动物对于食物的摄入，消化或者同化作用。

Code: 437
English Term:animal physiology
Definition:Study of the normal processes and metabolic functions of animal organisms.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:动物生理学
Translation:对于动物组织的正常处理和代谢的研究。



Code: 10539
English Term:animal population
Definition:A group of animals inhabiting a given area.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:动物种群
Translation:在某一特定地区生存的一群动物。

Code: 442
English Term:animal product
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:动物产品

Code: 441
English Term:animal production
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:动物生产



Code: 443
English Term:animal protection
Definition:Precautionary actions or procedures taken to prevent or reduce the harm to sentient, non-human species, posed, in most cases, by humans.&#10;(Source: ONE / RHW)
Chinese Term:动物保护
Translation: 人类为了避免或减少对有感知能力的非人类物种的伤害，所采取的预警行为或程序。


Code: 14652
English Term:animal remain
Definition:Any substances or components left over from animal life, including body parts and, later, decomposed materials.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:动物残留
Translation:动物身上残留的任何物质或成分，包括身体的某个部分，末期的部分，已分解的成分。

Code: 10548
English Term:animal reproduction
Definition:Any of various processes, either sexual or asexual, by which an animal produces one or more individuals similar to itself.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:动物生殖
Translation: 动物死亡后所留下的任何物质或成分，包括躯体，及后来的降解物质。

Code: 445
English Term:animal resource
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:动物资源



Code: 11477
English Term:animal rights
Definition:Just claims, legal guarantees or moral principles accorded to sentient, non-human species, including freedom from abuse, consumption, experimentation, use as clothing or performing for human entertainment.&#10;(Source: ONE / RHW)
Chinese Term:动物权利
Translation: 基于对有感知能力的非人类物种的法律保护或道德原则的宣告，包括不受虐待、不被滥用、不被用作实验品、不为娱乐人类而被用作服饰或表演的自由。


Code: 449
English Term:animal shelter
Definition:A protection providing housing for animals in bad weather.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:动物庇护所
Translation:在天气恶劣时为动物提供住所的保护地。

Code: 10073
English Term:animal species
Definition:Species belonging to the animal kingdom.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:动物种群
Translation:动物领域的种群。

Code: 10671
English Term:animal species reintroduction
Definition:Attempts made to prevent the extinction of threatened species and populations by reintroducing them in their natural habitat. The reintroduction of species in a region requires a preliminary study to establish the reasons of their disappearance and the modifications that might have occurred in the biotopes.&#10;(Source: RBGKEWa / RAMADE)
Chinese Term:动物物种再引进
Translation: 将受威胁物种再引进到自然栖息地以防止物种灭绝。 物种的再引进需要对它们消失的原因以及其生态环境的更动进行初步研究。


Code: 451
English Term:animal textile fibre
Definition:A filament or threadlike strand derived from animals that manufacturers use to produce clothes or other goods that require weaving, knitting or felting, which include silk, wool, mohair and other forms of animal hair.&#10;(Source: INP / RHW)
Chinese Term:动物性纺织纤维
Translation: 取自于动物的丝线，它被制造商以纺织、编织或毡合的方式来制造衣服或其它物品，包括蚕丝、羊毛、安哥拉毛和其它形式之动物毛发。

Code: 452
English Term:animal trade
Definition:The process or act of exchanging, buying or selling animals, especially livestock.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:动物交易
Translation:交换，买卖动物的行为，特别是对于牲畜。

Code: 453
English Term:animal waste
Definition:Discarded material from industries directly associated with the raising of animals, such as those wastes produced by livestock farming (manure, milk, etc.), meat production and animal testing (animal bodies, animal parts, feathers, etc.) and fur breeding (fur, blood, etc.).&#10;(Source: AWM)
Chinese Term:动物废弃物
Translation: 直接与动物饲养有关的产业所产生的废弃物，例如由畜牧业（粪肥、牛奶等）、肉类加工和动物实验（动物躯体、动物肢体、动物羽毛等）、皮毛兽育种（皮毛、血液等）产生的废弃物。

Code: 454
English Term:anion
Definition:An ion that is negatively charged.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:阴离子
Translation:带负电的离子。

Code: 456
English Term:annelid
Definition:Any worms of the phylum Anellida, in which the body is divided into segments both internally and externally. The group includes the earthworms, lugworm, ragworm, and leeches.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:环节动物
Translation: 环节动物门的动物。 身体内外被分为许多的体节，这个族群包括蚯蚓、海蚯蚓、沙蚕、水蛭。

Code: 458
English Term:antagonism
Definition:The situation in which two chemicals upon interaction interfere in such a way that the action of one partially or completely inhibits the effects of the other.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:拮抗作用
Translation: 两种化学物质间的交互干扰作用，某一物质部分或完全抑制另外一物质发生效果的状况。

Code: 460
English Term:antagonistic effect of toxic substances
Chinese Term:毒性物质的拮抗作用

Code: 463
English Term:Antarctic ecosystem
Chinese Term:南极圈生态系统

Code: 464
English Term:Antarctic Ocean
Definition:The waters, including ice shelves, that surround the continent of Antarctica, which comprise the southernmost parts of the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian oceans, and also the Ross, Amundsen, Bellingshausen and Weddell seas.&#10;(Source: RHW / CIA)
Chinese Term:南冰洋
Translation: 环绕着南极洲大陆，包括冰架的水域，由太平洋、大西洋和印度洋的最南端部分，以及罗斯海、阿蒙森海、别林斯高晋海和威德尔海所组成。

Code: 465
English Term:Antarctic region
Definition:An area within the Antarctic Circle that includes the fifth largest continent and its surrounding waters, consisting mostly of thick ice shelves.&#10;(Source: INP / CIA)
Chinese Term:南极地区
Translation: 南极圈内包含第五大洲及其周围水域的区域，主要由厚冰层所组成。

Code: 461
English Term:Antarctica
Definition:A continent lying chiefly within the Antarctic Circle and asymmetrically centered on the South Pole: it consists of an ice-covered plateau (some 95 percent of Antarctica is covered by an icecap averaging 1,6 km in thickness), 1800-3000 m above sea level, and mountains ranges rising to 4500 m with some volcanic peaks; average temperatures all below freezing and human settlement is confined to research station.&#10;(Source: CED / AMHER)
Chinese Term:南极洲
Translation: 主要位于南极圈内的大陆，不太对称地以南极为中心：由一个高于海平面1,800-3,000公尺，为冰层覆盖着的高原（南极洲有95%的部分被平均1.6 km厚的冰帽覆盖着），其高达4,500公尺，包括一些火山顶的山脉所组成；平均温度低于冰点，人类的生活只局限在研究站内。

Code: 468
English Term:anthropic activity
Definition:Action resulting from or influenced by human activity or intervention.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:人类活动
Translation:由于人类活动或者人类干预而影响或者导致的结果。

Code: 470
English Term:anthropogenic factor
Chinese Term:人为因素

Code: 471
English Term:anthropologic reserve
Definition:Area of protection of the life style of societies where traditional human activities are still maintained and the exploitation of natural resources is still carried out without compromising the future availability.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:人类保护区
Translation: 保护社会生活方式的区域，在这里仍保留传统的人类活动，自然资源的开发也在不危及未来可利用性的范围内进行。 

Code: 473
English Term:antibiotic
Definition:A chemical substance, produced by microorganisms and synthetically, that has the capacity to inhibit the growth of, and even to destroy, bacteria and other microorganisms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:抗生素
Translation: 由微生物制造或人工合成的化学物质，它具有抑制，甚至破坏细菌和其它微生物生长的能力。

Code: 474
English Term:antibody
Definition:A complex protein that is produced in response to the introduction of a specific antigen into an animal. Antibodies belong to a class of proteins called immunoglobins, which are formed by plasma cells in the blood as a defence mechanism against invasion by parasites, notably bacteria and viruses, either by killing them or rendering them harmless.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term:抗体
Translation: 一种复杂的蛋白质，因特定的抗原进入动物体后产生的反应而生成。 抗体属于称为免疫血红素的一类蛋白质，由血液中的血浆细胞所形成，做为对抗入侵的寄生动物，特别是细菌与病毒的防卫机制，能够消灭入侵物或将其转化为无害。

Code: 475
English Term:anticipation of danger
Definition:The act of foreseeing, expecting and taking measures against possible future exposure to harm, death or a thing that causes these.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:危险预见
Translation:对于未来将会发生的危险，死亡或者将导致这些的事情的预见以及采取相应应对措施的行为。

Code: 478
English Term:antifouling agent
Definition:Agent that inhibits the growth of barnacles and other marine organisms on a ship’s bottom (an antifouling paint or other coating). Organo-tin compounds have been the most often used agents in this application since they are effective against both soft and hard fouling organisms. However, in spite of their performance, they have a negative impact on the marine environment and their long half life in the environment, has prompted marine paint manufacturers to look for a nonpersistent alternative.&#10;(Source: CED / OLIN)
Chinese Term:船底防污剂
Translation: 一种用于抑制藤壶（一种甲壳类动物）或其它海洋生物体在船舶底部生长的试剂（防腐用油漆或其它涂料）。 有机锡是最常被使用的试剂，因为它可以有效的抑制柔软和坚硬的致腐蚀性之生物的生长。 虽然它具有防污的功能，但是它对海洋环境有负面影响，且它在环境中有很长的半衰期，这促使船舶油漆生产商寻找其他非持久性的替代物。


Code: 483
English Term:antipollution incentive
Definition:Financial reward or penalty used to incite action towards greater responsibility in reducing the presence of pollution or substances in the environment deemed harmful to human health or natural resources.&#10;(Source: ODE / TOE)
Chinese Term:减轻污染鼓励措施
Translation: 为激励减轻污染现状或减少环境中对人体健康和自然资源有害物质行动的一种财政奖励或惩罚措施。


Code: 11073
English Term:antipollution premium
Definition:A prize or bonus given as an inducement or reward for efforts to reduce the presence of pollution or substances in the environment deemed harmful to human health or natural resources.&#10;(Source: ISEP / OED / TOE)
Chinese Term:减轻污染鼓励奖金
Translation: 为激励减轻污染现状或减少环境中对人体健康和自然资源有害物质行动的奖金。

Code: 5858
English Term:antiquated plant
Definition:Old installation that do not respond to new rules for the prevention of environmental pollution and whose redevelopment requires investments for adopting technologies related to the protection of waterways, waste management, noise reduction and emission control.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:过时的机器设备
Translation: 不能符合新版环境污染保护规定的老旧设施，而其再开发需要投资相关水道保护、废弃物管理、噪音减量及排放控制的技术。

Code: 12746
English Term:antiseismic regulation
Definition:Rules for minimizing or containing the risks deriving from earthquakes.&#10;(Source: MANCOS)
Chinese Term:抗震法规
Translation:为降低地震带来的风险而设定的法规。

Code: 486
English Term:AOX value
Definition:Organic halogens subject to absorption. This is a measure of the amount of chlorine (and other halogens) combined with organic compounds.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term:可吸附有机卤素值
Translation: 可吸附性的有机卤素。 该数值用以表示与有机化合物结合之氯（及其他卤素）的含量。


Code: 488
English Term:apartment block
Definition:An apartment building in which each apartment is individually wholly owned and the common areas are jointly owned.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:公寓大楼
Translation:每户独自拥有各自的公寓房间，公用区域共同拥有的公寓。

Code: 490
English Term:apiculture
Definition:Large-scale commercial beekeeping.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:养蜂业
Translation:大规模商业化的蜜蜂饲养

Code: 492
English Term:appeal
Definition:Resort to a superior court to review the decision of an inferior court or administrative agency.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:上诉
Translation: 由于对下级法院或者其他行政机构的判决不服，诉诸上级法院要求重申。

Code: 493
English Term:appeal procedure
Definition:Procedure through which it is possible to resort to a superior court to review the decision of an inferior court.&#10;(Source: BLACKa)
Chinese Term:上诉程序
Translation: 向上级法院提出不服下级法院判决的诉讼所需的程序。

Code: 494
English Term:applied ecology
Definition:The application of ecological principles to the solution of human problems.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:应用生态学
Translation:用来解决人类问题的生态学原则方面的应用。

Code: 495
English Term:applied nutrition
Definition:Putting to use general principles of the science of human nourishment to address or solve specific problems.&#10;(Source: MED)
Chinese Term:应用营养学
Translation: 应用人类营养食品科学的一般原则指出或解决特定问题。

Code: 11146
English Term:applied research
Definition:Research directed toward using knowledge gained by basic research to make things or to create situations that will serve a practical or utilitarian purpose.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:应用性研究
Translation:旨在用通过基础研究得到的知识来解决实际问题的研究。

Code: 496
English Term:applied science
Definition:Science whose results are employed in technical applications.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:应用科学
Translation:研究成果被用在技术应用中的科学。

Code: 12900
English Term:appraisal
Definition:An expert or official valuation.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:评估书
Translation:专家或官方的评估。

Code: 11259
English Term:approach
Definition:The way or means of entry or access.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:通路
Translation:进入的权限或者入口。


Code: 498
English Term:appropriate technology
Definition:1) A flexible and participatory approach to developing economically viable, regionally applicable and sustainable technology.&#10; 2) Technology designed to be used in developing countries. Typical requirements are that it should: be easy to use by the unskilled; have no difficult-to-get parts; be easily repaired on the spot. Typical example: a simple windmill to pump water rather than a diesel-driven pump. The terms ‘alternative’, ‘intermediate’ and ‘appropriate’ are often used interchangeably.&#10;(Source: IISD / VCN)
Chinese Term:合适的技术
Translation: 1）一种灵活且可共同参与的方法，可运用来发展具备经济可行性、地区实用性和具可持续性的技术。 （2）为发展中国家设计的技术。 典型要求是︰易于被非专业人员使用，没有难于取得之零件，易于现场修复。 典型实例如用风车而非柴油驱动泵来供水。 专用术语“替代性”(alternative)、“媒介性”(intermediate)和“适用性”(appropriate)经常交换使用。




Code: 13697
English Term:approval
Chinese Term:许可





Code: 500
English Term:approval of installations
Definition:Authorization or permission for setting up or making adjustments to a building or to a mechanical or electrical system or apparatus.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:安装许可
Translation:对于建筑物安装装置的授权或者许可，或者对于仪器或电力系统的调整。




Code: 501
English Term:aquaculture
Definition:1) The cultivation and harvest of freshwater or marine animals and plants, in ponds, tanks, cages or on protected beds. This is usually done in inland waters, estuaries or coastal waters. It is estimated that commercial fish farming accounts for more than 10% of the world’s fish needs. Fish farming usually concentrates on molluscs, including oysters, mussels and clams, because they are usually immobile and fetch high prices. Shrimps and salmon are also farmed, but the stock have to be caught in the wild first, so that they can be brought up to commercial standards in pens. Aquaculture in not new. In Asia freshwater fish have been farmed for some 4.000 years, usually on small farms. &#10;2) The use of artificial means to increase the production of aquatic organisms in fresh or salt water.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT / LANDY)
Chinese Term:水产业
Translation: 1）在池塘、水箱、水笼和被保护的河床和海床中的淡水和海水动植物的养殖和收获。 经常实行于内陆水域、河口、或海岸水域。 据估计，商业渔业养殖约占世界渔业需求的10％以上。 渔场通常养殖了大量的软体动物，包括蛤蜊、蚌类和蛤类，因为它们通常不能移动，又可售得高价。 虾和鲑鱼也常被养殖，但种苗必须先从野外捕集，再于围栏中养殖，以达到商业标准。 水产养殖业并不新奇，在亚洲，通常在小渔场里的淡水鱼类养殖已约有4000年了。 （2）藉由人工方法来增加淡水或咸水中的水中生物产量。



Code: 503
English Term:aquatic animal
Definition:Animal having a water habitat.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:水生物
Translation:在水中生存的生物。


Code: 504
English Term:aquatic ecology
Definition:The study of the relationships among aquatic living organisms and between those organisms and their environment.&#10;(Source: ALLa)
Chinese Term:水生态
Translation:对于水中生物之间的关系以及它们和环境之间关系的研究。


Code: 505
English Term:aquatic ecosystem
Definition:Any watery environment, from small to large, from pond to ocean, in which plants and animals interact with the chemical and physical features of the environment.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:水生生态系统
Translation: 任何动植物可以和环境中的物理及化学特性交互作用的水环境，从大到小，从海洋到池塘。

Code: 10194
English Term:aquatic environment
Definition:Waters, including wetlands, that serve as habitat for interrelated and interacting communities and populations of plants and animals.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:水生环境
Translation:作为动植物互相联系和交互作用的场所的各种水体，包括湿地。

Code: 508
English Term:aquatic mammal
Chinese Term: 水生哺乳动物

Code: 510
English Term:aquatic micro-organism
Definition:Microorganisms having a water habitat.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:水生微生物
Translation:在水中生存的微生物。

Code: 511
English Term:aquatic organism
Definition:Organisms which live in water.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:水生有机体
Translation:在水中生存的有机组织。

Code: 514
English Term:aquatic plant
Definition:Plants adapted for a partially or completely submerged life.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:水生植物
Translation:部分或全部在水中适应的植物。

Code: 516
English Term:aquatic recreational amenity
Chinese Term:水中娱乐设施

Code: 517
English Term:aqueduct
Definition:A channel for supplying water; often underground, but treated architecturally on high arches when crossing valleys or low ground.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term:导水渠道
Translation:供水的渠道，往往在地下，但是当需要穿过山谷或者低地的时候会被建造成拱形。

Code: 518
English Term:aquifer
Definition:Layers of rock, sand or gravel that can absorb water and allow it to flow. An aquifer acts as a groundwater reservoir when the underlying rock is impermeable. This may be tapped by wells for domestic, agricultural or industrial use. A serious environmental problem arises when the aquifer is contaminated by the seepage of sewage or toxins from waste dumps. If the groundwater in coastal areas is over-used salt water can seep into the aquifer.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:含水土层
Translation: 具有吸水及透水性的岩石、砂或砾石层。 当含水层下方岩层不透水时，含水层就成为地下水库，可以用水井抽水做为民生、农业或工业使用。 当含水层被污水或废弃物倾弃中有毒物质所污染时，将会造成严重的环境问题。 如果沿海岸的地下水被过度使用时，则会造成含盐的海水渗入含水层中。

Code: 521
English Term:arable farming
Definition:Growing crops as opposed to dairy farming, cattle farming, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:耕种农业
Translation:与奶产品业，畜牧业相对的耕种农业。

Code: 10640
English Term:arboretum
Definition:Collection of trees from different parts of the world, grown for scientific study.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:植物园
Translation:来自全球各地的植物精选，作科学研究用途。

Code: 527
English Term:arboriculture
Definition:The planting and care of woody plants, especially trees.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:树木栽培
Translation:树木类植物，特别是树的植种和照料 。

Code: 529
English Term:archaeological site
Definition:Any location containing significant relics and artifacts of past culture.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:考古遗址
Translation:有重要遗迹和古代人工制品的任意地址。

Code: 530
English Term:archaeology
Definition:The scientific study of the material remains of the cultures of historical or prehistorical peoples.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:考古学
Translation:对于历史文明，甚至是史前文明，物质残留物的科学研究。
Code: 531
English Term:archipelago
Definition:A chain of many islands including the waters that surround them.&#10;(Source: DOE)
Chinese Term:群岛
Translation:一连串很多岛，包括围绕着它们的水。
Code: 538
English Term:architecture
Definition:The art and science of designing and building structures, or large groups of structures, in keeping with aesthetic and functional criteria.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term:建筑学
Translation:设计和建筑的科学，或大规模的建筑物，美学和功能标准一致。

Code: 541
English Term:Arctic ecosystem
Chinese Term:北极生态系统


Code: 542
English Term:Arctic Ocean
Definition:The smallest and most poorly studied of the oceans on earth. It covers an area of 14 million square km that is divided by three submarine ridges, i.e. the Alpha Ridge, the Lomonosov Ridge, and an extension of the mid-Atlantic ridge. It is also nearly landlocked, covered year-round by pack ice, and the third of its area is continental shelf.&#10;(Source: OCEAN)
Chinese Term:北冰洋
Translation: 地球上最小且被研究最少的大洋。 它覆盖着一千四百万平方公里的区域，被三条水下脊分开，即阿尔法脊、罗蒙诺索夫脊、和一条延伸到到中大西洋的脊。 它几乎完全被陆地包围，终年为浮冰所覆盖，它的三分之一是大陆棚。

Code: 543
English Term:Arctic region
Definition:The northernmost area of the earth, centered on the North Pole, that includes the Arctic Ocean, the northern reaches of Canada, Alaska, Russia, Norway and most of Greenland, Iceland and Svalbard.&#10;(Source: INP)
Chinese Term:北极地区
Translation: 地球的极北方，以北极为中心，包括北冰洋、加拿大的北方地带、阿拉斯加、俄罗斯、挪威以及格陵兰岛的大部分、冰岛与斯瓦尔巴岛。 

Code: 547
English Term:area of potential pollution
Definition:Area which is supposedly causing dangers to human health and environment.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:潜在污染地区
Translation:对人类健康和环境有潜在危险的地区。
Code: 14975
English Term:area under stress
Definition:Areas that are flooded by rising number of tourists or other kinds of pressure and suffer from insufficient or inappropriate planning and management. Damage frequently arises from a lack of understanding or interest of the value of such sites.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:受压地区
Translation: 被日益增多的游客数量或其他压力所挤满，且承受着不足或不当计划和管理的区域。 由于对这些地区的价值缺乏兴趣和理解，损害因而常常发生。

Code: 552
English Term:arid land
Definition:Lands characterized by low annual rainfall of less than 250 mm, by evaporation exceeding precipitation and a sparse vegetation.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:干旱地区
Translation:年降雨量小于250mm，蒸发量超过降水量，植物稀少的地区。

Code: 551
English Term:arid land ecosystem
Definition:The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in a climatic region where the annual precipitation averages less than 10 inches per year.&#10;(Source: TOE / DOE)
Chinese Term:干旱区生态系统
Translation: 在年平均降雨量少于10英寸的气候区，生态群落的交互影响的系统及生态群落的非生命周围环境。


Code: 556
English Term:armament
Definition:The weapons, ammunition and equipment, or the total force held by a military unit or state.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:武装
Translation:武器，弹药和装备，或者军队或国家的全部武装力量。
Code: 557
English Term:armament conversion
Definition:Change in character, form or function of the arms and equipment with which a military unit is supplied.
Chinese Term:军事改造
Translation: 对军事单位所提供的武器或装备在特性、形式或功能上进行改变。

Code: 558
English Term:armed forces
Definition:The military units of a state, typically divided by their differing contexts of operations, such as the army, navy, air force and marines.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:武装力量
Translation:国家的武装单位，一般根据各单位不同的作战内容分类，比如陆军，海军，空军以及海军陆战队。
Code: 560
English Term:aromatic compound
Definition:Compounds characterized by the presence of at least one benzene ring.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:芳香族化合物
Translation:至少含有一个苯环的化合物
Code: 562
English Term:aromatic hydrocarbon
Definition:Hydrocarbons having an unsaturated ring containing alternating double and single bonds, especially containing a benzene ring.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:芳香族碳氢化合物
Translation:包含有双键和单键的不饱和环，并且有苯环的碳氢化合物。
Code: 564
English Term:aromatic substance
Definition:Substance having a distinctive, usually fragrant smell.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:芳香物
Translation:有独特味道，一般是香味的物质。
Code:566
English Term:arrangement for a deposit on packaging
Definition:Agreement to provide refunds or payments in exchange for used bottles or packaging materials.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:包装定金的安排
Translation:对使用过的瓶子或包装材料有偿回收的协议。
Code:567
English Term:arsenic
Definition:A toxic metalloid element, existing in several allotropic forms, that occurs principally in realgar and orpiment and as the free element. It is used in transistors, lead-based alloys, and high temperature brasses.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:砷
Translation:一种有毒的非金属元素，以几种同素异形体的形式存在，主要为二硫化二砷和雌黄以及其他自由元素。被用于晶体管，含铅合金，以及高温黄铜制品。
Code:568
English Term:art
Definition:The creation of works of beauty or other special significance.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:艺术
Translation:美和其他具有特别意义的物体的创作。
Code:571
English Term:arthropod
Definition:The largest phylum in the animal kingdom; adults typically have segmented body, a sclerotized integument, and many-jointed segmental limbs.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:节肢动物
Translation:动物界最大的门，成年个体有节状肢体，硬化外皮，以及多个有接缝的节状肢体。
Code:572
English Term:Articulata
Definition:Animals characterized by the repetition of similar segments (metameres), exhibited especially by arthropods, annelids, and vertebrates in early embryonic stages and in certain specialized adult structures.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 
Translation: 相似组成部分重复出现的动物，主要包括节肢动物，环节动物，以及胚胎期的脊椎动物和某些专门的成年结构。



Code:579
English Term:artificial lake
Definition:Lakes created behind manmade barriers.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:人工湖
Translation:人工建造的湖。
Code:13320
English Term:artificial reproductive technique
Chinese Term:人工再生技术
Code:587
English Term:artificial satellite
Definition:Any man-made object placed in a near-periodic orbit in which it moves mainly under the gravitational influence of one celestial body, such as the earth, sun, another planet, or a planet’s moon.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:人造卫星
Translation:任何放置在接近周期性轨道的人工物体，主要依靠某个天体的重力进行运动，比如地球，太阳，其他星球，以及某个星球的卫星。
Code:591
English Term:asbestos
Definition:Generic name for a group of fibrous mineral silicates. It includes blue asbestos (crocidolite), white asbestos (chrysotile) and brown asbestos (amosite). After they are mined the asbestos fibres are separated from the rock and are spun into a cloth. When inhaled the fibres penetrate the lungs and the tissues of the bronchial tubes, resulting in asbestosis, a crippling lung disease. Asbestos also causes cancer of the lung and the gastro-intestinal tract, and mesothelioma, a malignant cancer of the inner lining of the chest. However, because it is a poor conductor of electricity and highly resistant to heat it has been widely used over the years in fire-fighting suits, and building and insulating materials. The fibrous form of several silicate minerals, at one time widely used for electrical and thermal insulation; the use of all forms of asbestos is now either banned or strictly controlled in many countries since it causes cancer.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT / ALL)
Chinese Term:石棉
Translation:一类纤维状矿物硅酸盐的总称。包括蓝色石棉（青石棉），白色石棉（温石棉）和棕色石棉（铁石棉）。在挖掘出来后石棉纤维被从岩石中分离，并且被纺进一块布料中。如果被吸入，纤维将会穿过肺和支气管的组织，导致石棉沉滞症，一种会导致失去其功能的肺病。石棉也会引起肺部和胃肠部的癌症，以及间皮瘤，一种胸部内的恶性癌症。然而，因为它是一种便宜的导电物质，而且高度绝热，多年来它被广泛应用到防火服装，建筑物和绝缘材料中。包括被广泛应用的绝缘和绝热材料中的许多硅酸盐的纤维形式 ，石棉的各种用途现在已经被很多国家禁止或严格控制，因为它会导致癌症。
Code:594
English Term:asbestos cement
Definition:A hardened mixture of asbestos fibers, Portland cement and water used in relatively thin slabs for shingles, wallboard and siding.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:石棉水泥
Translation:石棉纤维，波特兰（Portland）水泥和水的加固混合物，被用在相对较薄的墙板和侧板中。
Code:11752
English Term:asbestosis
Definition:A non-malignant progressive, irreversible, lung disease, characterized by diffuse fibrosis, resulting from the inhalation of asbestos fibers.&#10;(Source: CONFER)
Chinese Term:石棉沉滞症
Translation:恶性，不能还原的肺部疾病。由石棉纤维的吸入导致，具有扩散纤维化的特征。
Code:595
English Term:ASEAN
Definition:Association of Southeast Asian Nations.&#10;(Source: MIIS)
Chinese Term:东盟（ASEAN）
Translation:东南亚国际联盟
Code:596
English Term:ash
Definition:The incombustible matter remaining after a substance has been incinerated.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:灰烬
Translation:一种物质被焚烧后残余的不可燃物质。

Code:598
English Term:Asia
Definition:The world’s largest continent. It occupies the eastern part of the Eurasian landmass and its adjacent islands and is separated from Europe by the Ural Mountains. Asia borders on the Arctic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the Mediterranean and Red Seas in the west. It includes the largest peninsulas of Asia Minor, India, Arabia, and Indochina and the island groups of Japan, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Ceylon; contains the mountain ranges of the Hindu Kush, Himalayas, Pamirs, Tian Shan, Urals, and Caucasus, the great plateaus of India, Iran and Tibet, vast plains and deserts, and the valleys of many large rivers including the Mekong, Irrawaddy, Indus, Ganges, Tigris and Euphrates.&#10;(Source: AMHER / CED)
Chinese Term:亚洲
Translation:世界上最大的大陆。占据了欧亚大陆的东部，邻近岛屿，以乌拉尔山脉作为和欧洲的分隔线。亚洲接壤北冰洋，太平洋，印度洋以及地中海和西方的红海。包括小亚细亚最大的半岛，印度，阿拉伯半岛，中国，和日本群岛，印度尼西亚，菲律宾，斯里兰卡；包括喜马拉雅山脉边缘，帕米尔高原，天山，乌拉尔山脉和高加索山脉，印度最大的高原，伊朗，广阔的平原和沙漠，很多大河的山谷比如底格里斯河，幼发拉底河。
Code:13077
English Term:assay
Definition:Qualitative or quantitative determination of the components of a material, such as an ore or a drug.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化验分析
Translation:对于某种物质，比如矿石或者药材，组成部分的定性或者定量的分析。
Code:605
English Term:assimilation
Definition:Conversion of nutritive material to living tissue.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:同化作用
Translation:营养物质对活体组织的转化。

Code:607
English Term:association
Definition:A body of persons associated for the regulation of a common economic activity by means of a special organization.&#10;(Source: SHOOX / ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:组织
Translation:通过一种特殊的组织方式，一群人联合起来管理一项日常的经济活动。

Code:611
English Term:astronautics
Definition:The science of space flight.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:航天学
Translation:研究太空飞行的科学。

Code:612
English Term:astronomy
Definition:The science concerned with celestial bodies and the observation and interpretation of the radiation received in the vicinity of the earth from the component parts of the universe.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:天文学
Translation:和天体以及对一些射线的观察和解释的科学。这些从地球附近接收到，来自宇宙其他组成部分。

Code:616
English Term:atlas
Definition:A bound collection of maps or charts, plates, engravings or tables illustrating any subject.&#10;(Source: CCL / RHW)
Chinese Term:地图集
Translation:装订好的地图，图标，印版，版画或者表述任意主题的插话的合集。

Code:617
English Term:atmosphere
Definition:The gaseous envelope surrounding the Earth in a several kilometers-thick layer.&#10;(Source: UVAROVa)
Chinese Term: 大气层
Translation: 气态的围绕在地球上空，若干千米厚的一层物质。
Code:12008
English Term:atmospheric aerosol
Definition:Particulate matter suspended in the air. The particulate matter may be in the form of dusts, fumes, or mist. Aerosols in the atmosphere are the form in which pollutants such as smoke are dispersed.&#10;(Source: LANDY / PHC)
Chinese Term:大气悬浮微粒
Translation:空气中悬浮的微粒物质。这些微粒物质可能以灰尘，烟雾或者雾气的形式存在。大气中的悬浮微粒是一些污染物（比如烟雾）的消散方式。
Code:621
English Term:atmospheric chemistry
Definition:The study of the production, transport, modification, and removal of atmospheric constituents in the troposphere and stratosphere.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:大气化学
Translation:研究对流层和平流层中大气组成部分的制造，转移，转变和移除的科学。
Code:622
English Term:atmospheric circulation
Definition:The general movement and circulation of air, which transfers energy between different levels of the atmosphere. The mechanisms of circulation are very complicated. They involve the transfer of energy between the oceans and the atmosphere, the land and the atmosphere, as well as the different levels of the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:大气循环
Translation:大气的普通运动和循环，可以将不同层面的大气能量转移。循环的机制非常复杂，包括海洋和大气层之间能量转移，大气和陆地之间的能量转移，以及不同层面大气层的能量转移。
Code:623
English Term:atmospheric component
Definition:The Earth’s atmosphere consists by volume of nitrogen (79,1%), oxygen (20,9%), carbon dioxide (about 0,03%) and traces of the noble gases (argon, krypton, xenon, helium) plus water vapour, traces of ammonia, organic matter, ozone, various salts and suspended solid particles.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:大气组成成分
Translation:地球的大气由氮气（19.1%），氧气（20.9%），二氧化碳（0.03%）和少许惰性气体（氦，氩，氪，氙）加上水蒸气，少量氨，有机物，臭氧，各种盐和固态悬浮颗粒。
Code:624
English Term:atmospheric composition
Definition:The chemical abundance in the earth’s atmosphere of its constituents including nitrogen, oxygen, argon, carbon dioxide, water vapour, ozone, neon, helium, krypton, methane, hydrogen and nitrous oxide.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:大气组成
Translation:大气成分中的化学成分，包括氮，氧气，二氧化碳，氦，氩，氪，氙，以及水蒸气，甲烷，氢气，臭氧，氮氧化物。
Code:14915
English Term:atmospheric correction
Definition:The removal from the remotely sensed data of the atmospheric effects caused by the scattering and absorption of sunlight by particles; the removal of these effects improves not only the quality of the observed earth surface imaging but also the accuracy of classification of the ground objects.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term:大气纠正
Translation:对遥远感知到的大气数据中由于大气微粒引起的散射的吸收而带来的印象进行移除。这些移除动作不仅提高了观察到的地球表面图像的质量，也提高了地面物体分类的精确度。
Code:625
English Term:atmospheric emission
Definition:Suspended pollutants—solid particles, liquid aerosols, etc.—or toxic gases released into the atmosphere from a polluting source, or type of source.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:大气放射
Translation:从一个或者一类污染源中释放到大气中的悬浮的污染物——固体微粒，液态气溶胶等——或者有毒气体。
Code:12026
English Term:atmospheric fallout
Definition:The sedimentation of dust or fine particles from the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:大气沉降物
Translation:大气中尘土或者微粒的沉降。
Code:626
English Term:atmospheric humidity
Definition:A measurable quantity of the moisture content found in the earth’s atmosphere.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:大气湿度
Translation:可测量到数量的大气中的水分。



Code:12082
English Term:atmospheric inversion
Definition:A temperature inversion in the atmosphere in which the temperature, instead of falling, increases with height above the ground. With the colder and heavier air below, there is no tendency to form upward currents and turbulence is suppressed. Inversions are often formed in the late afternoon when the radiation emitted from the ground exceeds that received from the sinking sun. Inversions are also caused by katabatic winds, that is cold winds flowing down the hillside into a valley, and by anticyclones. In inversion layers, both vertical and horizontal diffusion is inhibited and pollutants become trapped, sometimes for long periods. Low-level discharges of pollutants are more readily trapped by inversions than high level dischargers, hence the case for high stacks. Furthermore, high level discharges into an inversion tend to remain at a high level because of the absence of vertical mixing.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:大气倒置
Translation:大气中的温度倒置，在这种状况中，气温随着海拔的增加不减反增。由于下面更重更冷的空气，没有形成上升气流的趋势，湍流也被压制。倒置通常在下午晚些时候形成，这时候地面发出的射线超过了接收的来自下沉太阳的射线。倒置也会由下降风引起，这种风会以反气旋的形式从山上吹到山谷里。在倒置层，污染物的水平和竖直扩散都会被抑制从而被困住，有时会持续很长时间。低处的污染物放电比高处的更容易被倒置困住。而且，高处的污染物向倒置大气放电仍会保持在高处，因为缺少竖直混合。

Code:627
English Term:atmospheric layering
Definition:Any one of a number of strata or layers of the earth’s atmosphere; temperature distribution is the most common criterion used for denoting the various shell. Also known as atmospheric shell; atmospheric region.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:大气分层
Translation:大气中的任意一层，温度分布是最常见的标准，用来指代不同的层次。也称作大气壳，大气区域。

Code:629
English Term:atmospheric model
Definition:A simulation, pattern or plan designed to demonstrate the structure or workings of the atmosphere surrounding any object, including the Earth.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term:大气模型
Translation:用来展示大气围绕着物体（包括地球）时的工作方式的模型。

Code:631
English Term:atmospheric monitoring
Definition:A practice of continuous atmospheric sampling by various levels of government or particular industries.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:大气监测
Translation:由各级政府或者某些企业进行持续的大气取样的实施。
Code:632
English Term:atmospheric ozone
Definition:A triatomic molecule of oxygen; a natural constituent of the atmosphere, with the highest concentrations in the ozone layer or stratosphere; it is found at a level between 15 and 30 km above the Earth, which prevents harmful ultraviolet B radiation, which causes skin cancer and threatens plant life, from reaching the ground. The fragile shield is being damaged by chemicals released on Earth. The main chemicals that are depleting stratospheric ozone are chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are used in refrigerators, aerosols and as cleaners in many industries and halons, which are used in fire extinguishers. The damage is caused when these chemicals release highly reactive forms of chlorine and bromine.&#10;(Source: GILP96 / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:大气臭氧
Translation:三个氧原子构成的分子；大气中的自然组成部分之一，在臭氧层或平流层含量最高；在地表上15km到30km被发现，可以阻止有害的紫外线到达地表，这种紫外线会引发皮肤癌，威胁植物生命。这层脆弱的防护盾正在被地球释放的化学物损坏，其中的主要化学物为含氯氟烃 (CFC)，这种物质在冰箱中，气溶胶中用到。也被当作清洁剂，用在工业生产及灭火器中的碳、溴或卤的气体化合物中。当这些化学物释放高度放射性的氟和氯时，臭氧层便会受到损害。

Code:633
English Term:atmospheric particulate
Definition:A concentration of fine liquid or solid particles, such as dust, smoke, mist, fumes or smog, found in the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:大气微粒
Translation:微小的液态或固态微粒聚合物，比如大气中的灰尘，烟，烟雾，雾气。

Code:634
English Term:atmospheric physics
Definition:The study of the physical phenomena of the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:大气物理
Translation:研究大气中物理现象的科学。

Code:636
English Term:atmospheric pollution
Definition:The presence in the air of one or more contaminants in such a concentration and of such duration as to cause a nuisance or to be injurious to human life, animal life or vegetation.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:大气污染
Translation:大气中持久性地聚集，会对人类，动植物生命造成伤害的大气中的污染物。


Code:637
English Term:atmospheric precipitation
Definition:The settling out of water from cloud in the form of dew, rain, hail, snow, etc.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:大气降水
Translation:以露珠，雨水，冰雹，雪等形式从云中释放出的水。
Code:639
English Term:atmospheric process
Definition:Atmospheric processes are distinguished in physical and chemical processes and both types may be operating simultaneously in complicated and interdependent ways. The physical processes of transport by atmospheric winds and the formation of clouds and precipitation strongly influence the patterns and rates of acidic deposition, while chemical reactions govern the forms of the compounds deposited.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:大气活动
Translation:大气活动分为物理活动和化学活动，两种类型都可能同时以复杂并且各自独立的方式出现。大气中风，云和降雨运输强烈影响酸性物质形成的方式和速率，同时化学反应控制着化合物形成的形式。
Code:640
English Term:atmospheric science
Definition:The atmospheric sciences study the dynamics, physics and chemistry of atmospheric phenomena and processes, including the interactions of the atmosphere with soil physics, hydrology and oceanic circulation. The research focuses on the following areas: turbulence and convection, atmospheric radiation and remote sensing, aerosol and cloud physics and chemistry, planetary atmospheres, air-sea interactions, climate, and statistical meteorology.&#10;(Source: ATS)
Chinese Term:大气科学
Translation:大气科学研究大气现象及过程的动力学，物理学和化学，包括大气和土地物理，水文学和海洋循环的互相作用。研究关注以下领域：湍流，对流，大气辐射和遥感，悬浮微粒，云物理和云化学，行星大气层，空气和海洋的互相影响，气候，统计气象学。
Code:641
English Term:atmospheric structure
Definition:The gaseous area surrounding the planet is divided into several concentric spherical strata (layers, like shells) separated by narrow transition zones. The boundaries are know as “pause”. More than 99% of the total atmospheric mass is concentrated in the first 40 km from the Earth’s surface. Atmospheric layers are characterized by differences in chemical composition that produce variations in temperature.&#10;(Source: KSW)
Chinese Term:大气结构
Translation:围绕星球的气体分为几个同心球状层，这些层由狭窄的过渡区域分开。它们之间的界限称作“中止”。超过99%的气体总量集中在最靠近地表的40km部分。不同的大气层化学组成部分在不同温度下会产生不同的物质。

Code:11713
English Term:atrazine
Definition:Herbicide belonging to the triazine group, widely employed and particularly in maize crops. It is highly toxic for phytoplancton and freshwater algae and, being highly soluble in water, it easily contaminates aquifers.&#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term: 阿特拉津（莠去津)
Translation: 属于三嗪类的杀虫剂。被广泛应用在作物中，特别是玉米。对于浮游植物和淡水藻类有剧毒，容易污染含水土层。

Code:14923
English Term:attribute
Definition:A distinctive feature of an object. In mapping and GIS applications, the objects are points, lines, or polygons that represent features such as sampling locations, section corners (points); roads and streams (lines); lakes, forest and soil types (polygons). These attributes can be further divided into classes such as tree species Douglas-fir and ponderosa pine) for forest types and paved and gravel for road types. Multiple attributes are generally associated with objects that are located on a single map layer.&#10;(Source: FORUMT)
Chinese Term:属性
Translation:某个物体的特殊性质。在绘图和ＧＩＳ应用程序中，物体包括点，线，多边形，它们代表一些特性，比如地点，区域角落（点），路线和河流（线）；河，森林和土壤类型（多边形）。这些属性可以被进一步分类，比如按照树木种类分为花旗松和西黄松，按照道路种类分为铺好的路和碎石路。在单一的地图层上，一般会有多种属性。
Code:654
English Term:attribution
Definition:Under certain circumstances, the tax law applies attribution rules to assign to one taxpayer the ownership interest of another taxpayer.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:归因
Translation:在某些情况下，税法会应用归因条例将一位付税人的所有权利息指派给另一位付税人。
Code:13221
English Term:audiovisual equipment
Definition:Equipment designed to aid in learning and teaching by making use of both hearing and sight.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:视听设备
Translation:用来从听觉和视觉方向辅助教学的设备。
Code:658
English Term:audiovisual media
Definition:Any means of communication transmitted to both the sense of hearing and the sense of sight, especially technologies directed to large audiences.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:视听媒体
Translation:利用了传递视觉和听觉的任意交流方式，特别是面对大量观众的技术。
Code:14870
English Term:audio-visual presentation
Definition:An exhibition, performance, demonstration or lecture utilizing communication media directed at both the sense of sight and the sense of hearing.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:视听展示
Translation:使用视听媒体的展示，演出，或者演讲。
Code:11057
English Term:audit
Definition:The periodic or continuous verification of the accounts, assets and liabilities of a company or other organization, often to confirm compliance with legal and professional standards.&#10;(Source: West’s / ODE)
Chinese Term:审计
Translation:周期性或者持续的关于一个公司或者其他组织的账户，财产和义务的查证，通常以法律和专业性标准作为指导。
Code:662
English Term:authorisation
Definition:An official certification of competence or a transfer of the right and power to act, including permission from government to use state funds for a particular program or project.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term:授权
Translation:对于执行权力的官方授权，包括政府授予利用国家资金来进行某个项目的权限。
Code:661
English Term:authority body
Definition:An organized assemblage of authorized persons or officials empowered to implement and enforce laws, oversee jurisdictions, settle disputes, adjudicate or make some other legal determination.&#10;(Source: RHW / BLD)
Chinese Term:权威实体
Translation:一群官方组织起来的人员或者官员，有权利完善和加强法律，监管司法权，解决纠纷，评判或者做出其他的法律决议。
Code:664
English Term:autoecology
Definition:That part of ecology which deals with individual species and their reactions to environmental factors.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:个体生态学
Translation:处理个体物种和它们对于环境的反应的生态学。


Code:665
English Term:automatic detection
Definition:The processing, discovery and identification of data elements by automated means.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:自动监测
Translation:通过自动方式处理，发现和验证数据元素。
Code:668
English Term:automobile industry
Chinese Term:汽车工业


Code:678
English Term:avalanche
Definition:A fall or slide of a large mass, as of snow or rock, down a mountainside.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:雪崩
Translation:大量的雪以雪或者石块的形式从山坡上滑下。
Code:680
English Term:avalanche protection
Definition:The total of measures and devices implemented to protect people, property or natural resources from avalanche conditions, including avalanche forecasting and warning, avalanche zoning, ski testing and the use of explosives and other equipment to stabilize an avalanche area.&#10;(Source: ALL / AVA)
Chinese Term: 雪崩保护
Translation: 为了保护人类，财产或者自然资源免受雪崩侵害而实施的方法与设备，包括雪崩预测与警告，雪崩地区的划分，滑雪测试以及使用炸药和其他设备来稳定雪崩区域。

Code:685
English Term:aviation law
Definition:International rules regulating air transportation.&#10;(Source: NDGIUR)
Chinese Term:飞行法
Translation:管理空中运输的国际法律。
Code:11192
English Term:aviculture
Definition:The raising, keeping, and care of birds.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:鸟类饲养
Translation:对鸟类的喂养，照料。
Code:686
English Term:avifauna
Definition:All the birds in a particular region.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:鸟类志
Translation:某一特定区域内的所有鸟类。
Code:693
English Term:background level
Definition:Term used in a variety of situations, always as the constant or natural amount of a given substance, radiation, noise, etc.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term:背景级别
Translation: 此名词使用在多种情况，通常是指自然或者固定含量的某一给定物质、辐射、噪音等。


Code:11921
English Term:background noise
Definition:Noise coming from source other than the noise source being monitored.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:背景噪音
Translation:来自非监测渠道的噪音。

Code:695
English Term:background radiation
Definition:Radiation resulting from natural sources, as opposed to man-made sources, and to which people are exposed in everyday, normal life; for example from rocks and soil.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT / MGH)
Chinese Term:背景辐射
Translation: 来自于自然界的辐射而非来自于人为来源的辐射，正常情况下人们每日都暴露于此辐射下，例如来自于岩石和土壤。


Code:699
English Term:bacterial bed
Definition:A device that removes some suspended solids from sewage. Air and bacteria decompose additional wastes filtering through the sand so that cleaner water drains from the bed.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:细菌床
Translation:用于去除污水中悬浮固体物质的装置。 由曝气和细菌分解从沙中过滤的废污，使干净的水得由细菌床中排出。



Code:700
English Term:bactericide
Definition:An agent that destroys bacteria.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:杀菌剂
Translation:可以杀死细菌的物质。

Code:11639
English Term:bacteriological pollution
Definition:Contamination of water, soil and air with pathogen bacteria.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:细菌学污染
Translation:被病原菌污染的水，土地或者空气。

Code:702
English Term:bacteriology
Definition:The science and study of bacteria.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:细菌学
Translation:研究细菌的科学。

Code:698
English Term:bacterium
Definition:Group of single-cell micro-organisms, the smallest of the living organisms. Some are vital to sustain life, while others are responsible for causing highly dangerous human diseases, such as anthrax, tetanus and tuberculosis. Bacteria are found everywhere, in the soil, water and air.&#10;(Source: MGH / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:细菌
Translation: 单细胞的微小生物群，是最小的有生命的生物。 有的对维持生命关系重大，有的能导致严重的人类疾病，如炭疽、破伤风和结核。 细菌可在土壤、水、空气中普遍存在。


Code:709
English Term:balance (economic)
Definition:An equality between the sums total of the two sides of an account, or the excess on either side.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:平衡（经济学）
Translation:一个账户两方面的总量相等，或者一方超过另一方。

Code:5088
English Term:balance of matter
Definition:A calculation to inventory material inputs versus outputs in a process system.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:物质平衡
Translation: 在一个处理系统中，清单所列物质输入与输出的计算。


Code:710
English Term:balancing of interests
Definition:Considering, weighing or counterbalancing the competing political or financial concerns of different parts of society, including industries, consumers, trade unions and other groups or organizations.&#10;(Source: OED / ISEP)
Chinese Term:利益平衡
Translation: 思考、权衡或平衡包含工业界、消费者、贸易协会与其他团体或组织等不同社会部门互相竞争的政治性或财务性议题。


Code:13552
English Term:bank (land)
Definition:The sloping side of any hollow in the ground, especially when bordering a river.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:河岸（土地）
Translation:土地上与河流相邻的任意倾斜面。

Code:12204
English Term:bank protection
Definition:Engineering work which aims at the protection of banks of a river, or slopes of embankments along it, from erosion by the current of flow, from floods, etc.&#10;(Source: ECHO1a)
Chinese Term:河岸保护
Translation: 保护河岸或其边坡不受河水或洪水等侵蚀的工程。


Code:716
English Term:banking
Definition:Transactional business between any bank, an institution for safeguarding, exchanging, receiving and lending money, and that bank’s clients or customers.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term:银行业
Translation: 任何银行间的商业交易，从事于保险、汇兑、货币借贷、和服务客户或顾客的组织。


Code:719
English Term:barium
Definition:A soft silvery-white metallic element of the alkaline earth group. It is used in bearing alloys and compounds are used as pigments.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:钡
Translation:较软的银白金属元素，属于碱金属。被用做轴承合金，其化合物用做颜料。

Code:10149
English Term:barrier beach
Definition:An elongated sand or shingle bank which lies parallel to the coastline and is not submerged by the tide. If it is high enough to permit dune growth it is termed a barrier island.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:沿岸沙滩
Translation: 一个延伸的沙滩或卵石的堤岸，平行于海岸线且不被潮水淹没。 如果它高到足够允许沙丘增长，它就被称作堰洲岛。

Code:10175
English Term:barrier reef
Definition:An elongated accumulation of coral lying at low-tide level parallel to the coast but separated from it by a wide and deep lagoon or strait. The coral is thought to have formed initially on a flat surface: then as the sea-level rose in post-glacial times, thereby submerging the irregular wave-cut platform, the coral growth kept pace with the rising ocean level, so creating the great thickness witnessed today in such places as the Great Barrier Reef off the East coast of Queensland, Australia. This stretches for more than 1900 km and varies in width from about 30 km to 150 km.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 堤礁
Translation: 位于低潮水面的珊瑚堆积物，平行于海岸线且被又宽又深的泻湖或海峡分开。 珊瑚被认为最初在平面上形成：然后随着冰河期海平面的上升，不规则的波浪冲刷成的平台被淹没，珊瑚的生长和海平面的上升同步，因此造成了今天所看到的巨大的珊瑚礁，像澳大利亚昆士兰州东海岸线大堡礁。 它延伸了1900多公里，宽度从30公里到150公里不等。


Code:728
English Term:base (chemical)
Definition:Any chemical species, ionic or molecular, capable of accepting or receiving a proton (hydrogen ion) from another substance; the other substance acts as an acid in giving of the proton; the other ion is a base.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:碱
Translation: 任何能够从另一物质接受质子(氢离子)的化学物质，无论其为离子或分子；另一供应质子之物质作用为酸，而此化学物质就是碱。



Code:726
English Term:baseline monitoring
Definition:Monitoring of long-term changes in atmospheric compositions of particular significance to the weather and the climate.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term:基线检测
Translation: 对于天气和气候有重要意义的大气成分长期变化，所进行的监测。

Code:730
English Term:basic food requirement
Definition:The minimum nutriments deemed necessary for a person of a particular age, gender, physiological condition and activity level to sustain life, health and growth.&#10;(Source: PAJ)
Chinese Term:基本食物需求
Translation:对于某个特定年龄，性别，物理状态以及活跃程度的人维持生命，健康和成长的最低营养需求。
Code:731
English Term:basicity
Definition:The state of a solution of containing an excess of hydroxyl ions.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:碱性度
Translation:溶液中含有过量氢氧根离子的状态。
Code:733
English Term:basidiomycete
Chinese Term: 担子菌类

Code:4143
English Term:bastardisation of fauna
Definition:One of the possible consequences of the introduction of animal species in an area where they are not indigenous. Such translocation of species always involves an element of risk if not of serious danger. Newly arrived species may be highly competitive with or otherwise adversely affect native species and communities.&#10;(Source: RRDA / WPRa)
Chinese Term:动物种群相劣化
Translation: 某一地区由于引进非原生于该地的动物而造成的后果之一。 如此的迁移即使没有产生严重后果，但总是会有些许的危险性。 新到的品种可能具有很强的竞争性，或对原生物种和社群产生负面影响。

Code:4144
English Term:bastardisation of flora
Definition:One of the possible consequences of the introduction of plant species in an area where they are not indigenous.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:植物群相劣化
Translation: 某一地区因引进非原生于此地的植物所造成的可能后果之一。

Code:736
English Term:batch process
Definition:A process that is not in continuous or mass production; operations are carried out with discrete quantities of material or a limited number of items.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:批处理
Translation:不连续或者大量制造的处理过程。操作以离散数量的材料或者有限数量的物品而执行。

Code:12151
English Term:bathing freshwater
Definition:Freshwater in which bathing is explicitly authorised or in which bathing is not prohibited and is traditionally practised by a large number of bathers. Water in such areas must meet specified quality standards relating to chemical, microbiological and physical parameters.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term:沐浴用淡水
Translation: 可被用来进行沐浴的淡水，这些水必须满足一定质量标准，包括化学成分，微生物以及其他物理参数方面。

Code:12166
English Term:bathing seawater
Definition:Sea waters in which bathing is explicitly authorised or in which bathing is not prohibited and is traditionally practised by a large number of bathers. Water in such areas must meet specified quality standards relating to chemical, microbiological and physical parameters.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term:沐浴用海水
Translation:可被用来进行沐浴的海水，这些水必须满足一定质量标准，包括化学成分，微生物以及其他物理参数方面。


Code:740
English Term:bathing water
Definition:All waters, inland or coastal, except those intended for therapeutic purposes or used in swimming pools, an area either in which bathing is explicitly authorised or in which bathing is not prohibited and is traditionally practised by a large number of bathers. Water in such areas must meet specified quality standards relating to chemical, microbiological and physical parameters.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:沐浴用水
Translation:除去被用做治疗用途或泳池里的所有内陆或海岸的水。在这个地域洗浴是被允许的而且很多人在此洗浴过。这些地域的水必须满足一定质量标准，包括化学成分，微生物以及其他物理参数方面。

Code:745
English Term:battery
Definition:A series of cells, each containing the essentials for producing voltaic electricity, connected together.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:电池
Translation:一组连接到一起的原电池，每个都包含制造电流的必需成分。
Code:746
English Term:battery disposal
Chinese Term: 电池配置

Code:749
English Term:bay
English Term:An open, curving indentation made by the sea or a lake into a coastline.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:海湾
Translation:形成于海或者湖的朝向海岸线的开阔，弯曲的缺口。
Code:751
English Term:beach
Definition:The unconsolidated material that covers a gently sloping zone, typically with a concave profile, extending landward from the low-water line to the place where there is a definite change in material or physiographic from (such as a cliff), or to the line of permanent vegetation (usually the effective limit of the highest storm waves); a shore of body of water, formed and washed by waves or tides, usually covered by sand or gravel, and lacking a bare rocky surface.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:海滩
Translation:覆盖一个逐渐倾斜地区的松散物质，一般是从一个有凹面的地方从浅水线延伸至陆地，而且有着明确的材质或地理上的物理变化（比如悬崖），或者延伸至永久植物线（通常对于限制风暴的最高波很有效。或者出现在水体的岸边，被波浪或浪潮冲刷而形成，通常被沙子或砾石覆盖，没有裸露的岩石表面。

Code: 12349
English Term: beach cleansing
Definition: The process of removing dirt, litter or other unsightly materials from shore line property or surrounding areas.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 海滩清洁
Translation: 清除海岸线以及周边地区的污垢、垃圾或其他难看的物质的过程。


Code: 755
English Term: beaching
Definition: The washing ashore of whales or other cetaceans that have died for natural causes, or because of highly polluted sea water or after being trapped in drift nets.&#10;(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term:海滩堆积
Translation: 有死亡的鲸鱼或其他鲸目动物的岸边，这些动物因自然原因死亡或者因为高度污染的海水或在陷入流网之后死亡。


Code: 762
English Term: bee
Definition: Any of the membranous-winged insects which compose the superfamily Apoidea in the order Hymenoptera characterized by a hairy body and by sucking and chewing mouthparts.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蜜蜂
Translation: 任何膜翅目（具有毛茸茸身体和吸吮咀嚼式口器的特征），组成蜜蜂总科的对膜翅昆虫。


Code: 760
English Term: bee conservation
Definition: The care, preservation and husbandry of hymenopterous insects valued for their ability to pollinate crops and other flora or for their production of honey.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 蜜蜂保护？
Translation: 对膜翅类昆虫的关心、保护和养殖，重视它们授粉作物和其他植物或蜂蜜生产的能力。


Code: 761
English Term: beef cattle
Definition: Cattle bred for the production of meat.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 肉用牛
Translation: 用于肉类生产而饲养的牛。


Code: 764
English Term: beetle
Definition: Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having biting mouthparts and forewings modified to form shell-like protective elytra.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 甲虫
Translation: 任何鞘翅目昆虫，它们有咬人的口器和变化而形成壳状保护鞘翅的前翅。


Code: 765
English Term: behaviour
Definition: Any observable action or response of an organism, group or species to environmental factors.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 行为
Translation: 有机体，群体或物种对环境因素的任何明显的行动或反应。

Code: 766
English Term: behaviour of substances
Definition: Reactivity of a compound depending on the structure of the molecules.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 物质的行为 ？？
Translation: 基于分子结构的化合物反应。


Code: 767
English Term: behaviour pattern
Definition: A relatively uniform series of overt activities that can be observed with some regularity.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 模型行为
Translation: 一个相对统一的公开系列活动，并且可以看出一些规律。


Code: 13318
English Term: behavioural science
Definition: The study of the behaviour of organisms.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN /  ALL)
Chinese Term: 行为科学
Translation: 对生物体的行为研究。


Code: 768
English Term: beneficial organism
Definition: Any pollinating insect, or any pest predator, parasite, pathogen or other biological control agent which functions naturally or as part of an integrated pest management program to control another pest.
Chinese Term: 有益生物
Translation: 任何有自然功能或者作为综合虫害管理方案的一部分来控制另外一种害虫的授粉昆虫，或任何害虫捕食者，寄生虫，病原体或其他生物控制剂。


Code: 772
English Term: benthic division
Definition: The bottom of a body of water often occupied by benthos.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 底栖
Translation: 经常被底栖生物占领的水体底部。


Code: 773
English Term: benthic ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of the biological communities located at the bottom of bodies of freshwater and saltwater and their non-living environmental surroundings.&#10;(Source: TOE / DOE)
Chinese Term: 底栖生态系统
Translation: 位于淡水和咸水的底部及其非生物环境的生物群落的相互作用系统。


Code: 775
English Term: benthos
Definition: Those organisms attached to, living on, in or near the sea bed, river bed or lake floor.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 底栖生物
Translation: 那些生活在海床中或附近，河床或湖底的生物。


Code: 776
English Term: benzene
Definition: A colorless, liquid, flammable, aromatic hydrocarbon used to manufacture styrene and phenol. Also known as benzol.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 苯
Translation: 一种被用来制造苯乙烯和苯酚的无色液体，易燃的芳烃。也叫不纯苯。


Code: 777
English Term: benzopyrene
Definition: A five-ring aromatic hydrocarbon found in coal tar, in cigarette smoke, and as a product of incomplete combustion.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 苯并芘
Translation: 一种在煤焦油、香烟烟雾中找到的五环芳香烃，是一种不完全燃烧的产物。


Code: 781
English Term: beryllium
Definition: A corrosion-resistant, toxic silvery-white metallic element that occurs chiefly in beryl and is used mainly in x-ray windows and in the manufacture of alloys.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 铍
Translation: 一种耐腐蚀，有毒的银白色金属元素，主要在绿柱石中出现，主要用于防X -射线的窗户和合金的制造。


Code: 782
English Term: beta radiation
Definition: Name given to the ionizing radiation which is produced as a stream of high speed electrons emitted by certain types of radioactive substance when they decay. The intensity of radiation energy produced in human tissue by a beta particle is a hundred times less than that produced by an alpha radiation particle, but it travels slightly deeper into tissue.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: β辐射
Translation: 所给名称针对于电离辐射，一个高速的放射性物质衰变时，某些类型的发射电子流。由贝他粒子在人体组织产生的辐射的能量强度，比阿尔法辐射产生的少一百倍，但是它稍微深入到组织。


Code: 784
English Term: beverage
Definition: Any one of various liquids for drinking, usually excluding water.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 饮料
Translation: 任何一个可以饮用的液体，通常不包括水。


Code: 783
English Term: beverage industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 饮料工业
Translation:


Code: 14879
English Term: bibliographic information
Definition: Data pertaining to the history, physical description, comparison, and classification of books and other works.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 书目信息
Translation: 有关数据的历史，物理描述，比较，书籍和其他作品的分类。


Code: 14878
English Term: bibliographic information system
Definition: A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources organized for the exchange of data pertaining to the history, physical description, comparison, and classification of books and other works.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 书目信息系统
Translation: 一个关于人、设备或其他资源的协调组合物，用于有关数据的历史的交流、物理描述、比较、以及书籍和其他作品分类。

Code: 786
English Term: bibliography
Definition: A complete or selective listing of documents by a given subject, author or publisher, often including the description and identification of the editions, dates of issue, titles, authorship, publishers or other written materials.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 书目学 书刊目录,参考书目,书志学,目录学,文献学
Translation: 文档的完全的或者选择性的列表，根据一个给定的主题、作者、或者出版社，通常包含版本的描述和识别，发行日期、著作权、出版商或其他书面材料。


Code: 788
English Term: bicycle
Definition: A vehicle with two wheels in tandem, pedals connected to the rear wheel by a chain, handlebars for steering, and a saddlelike seat.
Chinese Term: 自行车
Translation: 一种车，它拥有两个同步的轮子，踏板通过链条连接后轮，为转向的把手，一个座椅和一个鞍。

Code: 10726
English Term: big game
Definition: Large wild animals that weigh typically more than 30 lb when fully grown, hunted for food, sport or profit.&#10;(Source: CORBIT /  AMHER)
Chinese Term: 大猎物
Translation: 完全长大时，体重通常超过30磅的大型野生动物，为了食物、运动或利润的追杀。


Code: 792
English Term: bilateral convention
Definition: An international agreement, especially one dealing with a specific matter, involving two or both sides, factions, or the like.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 双边公约
Translation: 一项国际协议，尤其是一个处理一个具体问题，涉及两个或两个方面，派别，或类似的。


Code: 794
English Term: bilge oil
Definition: Waste oil that accumulates, usually in small quantities, inside the lower spaces of a ship, just inside the shell plating, and usually mixed with larger quantities of water.&#10;(Source: ERG)
Chinese Term: 舱底油
Translation: 在船内的底层空间积累的通常少量的废油，在内壳板中，通常和大量的水混合在一起。


Code: 795
English Term: bilge water
Definition: Water that builds up in the bottom of a ship's bilge.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 舱底水
Translation: 装在船舶的舱底的底部的水。


Code: 798
English Term: bioaccumulation
Definition: 1) The accumulation of pollutants in living organisms by direct adsorption or through food chains. &#10;2) Accumulation by an organism of materials that are not an essential component or nutrient of that organism. Usually it refers to the accumulation of metals, but it can apply to bioaccumulation of persistent synthetic substances such as organochlorine compounds. Many organisms, such as plants, fungi and bacteria, will accumulate metals when grown in solutions containing them. The process can be employed usefully as a purification process to remove toxic heavy metals from waste water and contaminated land.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: (有毒化学物质的) 生物体内积累
Translation: 1）通过直接吸收或者通过食物链，生物体内污染物的积累。&#10;2）不是生物体的基本组成或者营养物质的那样一些物质在生物体的积累。通常它指金属元素的积累，但是它适用于如有机氯化合物这样的持续合成物质的生物积累。许多生物，如植物，真菌和细菌，在含有金属元素的溶液中生长，就会积累金属元素。这一过程可用作为有效净化过程，从废水和污染土地中去除有毒重金属。


Code: 800
English Term: bioaccumulative pollutant
Definition: Pollutants that become concentrated in living organisms through the consumption of food or water.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 生物蓄积性污染物
Translation: 通过食物或水的消耗，在生物体中逐渐积累的污染物。


Code: 802
English Term: bio-availability
Definition: The extent to which a drug or other substance is taken up by a specific tissue or organ after administration.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN /  CEDa)
Chinese Term: 生物有效性
Translation: 药物或其他物质在实施后被特定组织或者有机体吸收的程度。


Code: 807
English Term: biochemical method
Definition: Method based on the utilisation of a biochemical mechanism, e.g. any chemical reaction or series of reactions, usually enzyme catalysed, which produces a given physiological effect in a living organism.&#10;(Source: BIOHW)
Chinese Term: 生化法
Translation: 基于生化机制的利用的方法，例如，任何一个化学反应或者任何一系列反应，通常需要酶催化，产生特定的活生物体上的生理效应。


Code: 947
English Term: biochemical oxygen demand
Definition: The amount of oxygen used for biochemical oxidation by a unit volume of water at a given temperature and for a given time. BOD is an index of the degree of organic pollution in water.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 生化需氧量
Translation: 在特定温度和给定的时间内，单位体积的水生化氧化的耗氧量。BOD是水体有机污染的程度的指数。


Code: 812
English Term: biochemical process
Definition: Chemical processes occurring in living organisms.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 生化过程
Translation: 发生在活的有机体的化学过程。


Code: 813
English Term: biochemical substance
Definition: Chemical substances that occur in animals, microorganisms, and plants.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 生化物质
Translation: 在动物，微生物，和植物中出现的化学物质。


Code: 815
English Term: biochemistry
Definition: The study of chemical substances occurring in living organisms and the reactions and methods for identifying these substances.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物化学
Translation: 对于在活的有机体中出现的化学物质、以及确定这些物质的反应和方法的研究。


Code: 816
English Term: biocide
Definition: A diverse group of poisonous substance including preservatives, insecticides, disinfectants and pesticides used for the control of organisms that are harmful to human or animal health or that cause damage to natural or manufactured products.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term: 生物杀灭剂
Translation: 一组多样的有毒物质，包括防腐剂，杀虫剂，消毒剂和用于生物控制的杀虫剂，有害于人类或动物健康，或者造成自然或人造产品的损害。


Code: 818
English Term: bioclimatology
Definition: The study of climate in relation to fauna and flora.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 生物气候学
Translation: 有关动物和植物的气候的研究。


Code: 819
English Term: biocoenosis
Definition: A community or natural assemblage of organisms; often used as an alternative to ecosystem but strictly is the fauna/flora association excluding physical aspects of the environment.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 生物群落
Translation: 一个群落或生物体的自然组合；经常被用作生态系统的替代，但是尤其是指不包括环境的物理因素的动物/植物团体。

Code: 820
English Term: bioconcentration factor
Definition: The quotient of the concentration of a chemical in aquatic organisms at a specific time or during a discrete time period of exposure, divided by the concentration in the surrounding water at the same time or during the same period.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 生物富集系数
Translation: 在特定时间或在离散的时间段，在水生生物中化学物质的浓度商数；在同时或者在同一个时间段，被周边水剂浓度，除得到的商。


Code: 821
English Term: biodegradability
Definition: The extent to which a substance can be decomposed - or rotted - by bacteria and fungi.  Implies that residues from degradation are nontoxic. One of the most misleading claims in business, because shoppers often assume a biodegradable product to be harmless. Some harmful compounds take much longer to degrade than others and the product can harm the environment while it is rotting. Biodegradation may also be incomplete, sometimes leaving residues in the environment which are more harmful than the original substance. Accumulation in the environment of nonbiodegradable (or poorly biodegradable) substances, such as some biocides, can cause serious problems.&#10;(Source: VCN)
Chinese Term: 生物降解
Translation: 物质被细菌和真菌分解或腐烂的程度。暗示降解的残留物的是无毒的。最有误导性的宣称之一就是从购买者经常假设生物降解产品无害。一些有害的复合需要比其他物质长得多的时间降解，而且在腐烂过程中生成的产品会破坏环境。生物降解可能也不完整，有时离开余数在环境——比原更更有害物质，有时会在环境中残留比原物质更加有害的物质。非生物降解(或不善生物降解的)物质在环境中的积累，例如一些杀菌剂，能引起严重问题。


Code: 823
English Term: biodegradable pollutant
Definition: A pollutant which can be converted by biological processes into simple inorganic molecules.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 可生物降解的污染物
Translation:



Code: 826
English Term: biodegradation
Definition: Breaking down of a substance by microorganisms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物降解
Translation: 在微生物作用下分解物质。

Code: 827
English Term: biodiversity
Definition: 1) Genetic diversity: the variation between individuals and between populations within a species; species diversity: the different types of plants, animals and other life forms within a region; community or ecosystem diversity: the variety of habitats found within an area (grassland, marsh, and woodland for instance.&#10; 2) An umbrella term to describe collectively the variety and variability of nature. It encompasses three basic levels of organisation in living systems: the genetic, species, and ecosystem levels. Plant and animal species are the most commonly recognized units of biological diversity, thus public concern has been mainly devoted to conserving species diversity.&#10;(Source: WRES /  GILP96)
Chinese Term: 生物多样性
Translation: 遗传多样性：一个物种的个体间以及群体间的变异；物种多样性：在一个区域内的植物，动物和其他生命形式的不同类型；群体或生态系统多样性：在一个地区内的栖息地的多样性（例如草地，沼泽和林地）&#10;集中描述自然的多样性和变异性的总称。它包括生命系统的组织的三个基本层次：基因、物种和生态系统层。植物和动物物种是生物多样性最普遍认可的单位，因此，公众关注的主要是致力于保护物种多样性。


Code: 830
English Term: bioethics
Definition: The study of ethical problems arising from biological research and its applications in such fields as organ transplantation, genetic engineering, or artificial insemination.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 生物伦理学
Translation: 在那些器官移植、基因工程或者人工受精等领域中，生物学研究及其应用引起的伦理问题的研究。


Code: 12576
English Term: biofiltration
Definition: The distribution of settled sewage on a bed of inert granular material through which it is allowed to percolate. In doing so, the effluent is aerated thus allowing aerobic bacteria and fungi to reduce its biochemical oxygen demand.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 生物过滤
Translation: 污水在惰性颗粒材料（通过它允许渗透）的环境中的分布。这样做可以使污水与氧结合，从而使好氧细菌和真菌减少它们生化需氧量。


Code: 12011
English Term: biofuel
Definition: A gaseous, liquid, or solid fuel that contains an energy content derived from a biological source. The organic matter that makes up living organisms provides a potential source of trapped energy that is beginning to be exploited to supply the ever-increasing energy demand around the world. An example of a biofuel is rapeseed oil, which can be used in place of diesel fuel in modified engines. The methyl ester of this oil, rapeseed methyl ester (RME), can be used in unmodified diesel engines and is sometimes known as biodiesel. Other biofuels include biogas and gasohol.&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 生物燃料
Translation: 一种从生物源得到的含有能量的气体、液体或者固体燃料。组成有机体的有机物，为被困能源提供了潜在的来源，开始在全世界被用来满足不断增加的能源需求。生物燃料的一个例子是菜籽油，它可以用来替代改良发动机的柴油。这种油酸甲酯，油菜籽甲基酯（RME），可以在未修改的柴油发动机中被使用，它有时候被当做生物柴油。其他一些生物燃料有沼气和乙醇汽油。

Code: 832
English Term: biogas
Definition: Gas, rich in methane, which is produced by the fermentation of animal dung, human sewage or crop residues in an air-tight container. It is used as a fuel, to heat stoves, lamps, run small machines and to generate electricity. The residues of biogas production are used as a low-grade organic fertilizer. Biogas fuels do not usually cause any pollution to the atmosphere, and because they come from renewable energy resources they have great potential for future use.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 沼气
Translation: 气体，富含甲烷，由动物粪便、人类排泄物或者作物残留物在密闭的容器中发酵产生，它被用作的一种燃料，给灶、灯加热，运行小型机器设备以及发电。生产沼气的残留物是用来作为一种低级的有机肥料。沼气燃料通常不会造成任何污染大气，并且因为他们来自可再生能源资源，它们对未来的使用潜力巨大。


Code: 833
English Term: biogeochemical cycle
Definition: Movement of chemical elements in a circular pathway, from organisms to physical environment, back to organisms. The process is termed a nutrient cycle if the elements concerned are trace elements, which are essential to life. A biogeochemical cycle occurs when vegetation decomposes and minerals are incorporated naturally in the humus for future plant growth.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 生物地理化学循环
Translation: 化学元素的运动循环，从生物到物理环境，回到生物。如果相关元素是微量元素，这个过程被称为一个养分循环，是生命的基础。一个生物地理化学循环发生在植被分解，矿物为未来植物生长被自然用于腐殖质。


Code: 834
English Term: biogeochemistry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 生物地球化学
Translation:


Code: 835
English Term: biogeographical region
Definition: Area of the Earth's surface defined by the species of fauna and flora it contains.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 生物地理区域
Translation: 根据所包含的动植物物种来定义的地球表面区域。


Code: 836
English Term: biogeography
Definition: The science concerned with the geographical distribution of animal and plant life.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物地理学(研究动植物的地理分布)
Translation: 与动物和植物的地理分布有关的科学。


Code: 839
English Term: biological activity
Definition:
Chinese Term: 生物活性
Translation:


Code: 841
English Term: biological analysis
Definition: The analysis of a substance in order to ascertain its influence on living organisms.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 生物分析
Translation: 为了确定对生物的影响，对物质进行的分析。


Code: 842
English Term: biological attribute
Definition: Properties or features belonging to living organisms.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 生物属性
Translation: 属于生物体的属性或特征。


Code: 11675
English Term: biological contamination
Definition: The presence in the environment of living organisms or agents derived by viruses, bacteria, fungi, and mammal and bird antigens that can cause many health effects.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 生物污染
Translation: 环境中那些可导致许多健康问题的现象，这些现象由生物体或由病毒、细菌、真菌、哺乳动物和鸟类抗原因素引起。


Code: 13118
English Term: biological cycle
Definition: A series of transformations or biological events which follow one after the other one, reaching at the end of the cycle the initial conditions, as in the life cycle of many animal and plant organisms.&#10;(Source: DELFIN)
Chinese Term: 生物周期
Translation: 从初始状态开始到达周期结束又达到初始条件的过程中的一系列生物事件的转换，正如许多动物和植物的生命周期。

Code: 846
English Term: biological development
Definition: The action of growing of living organisms.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 生物发展
Translation: 生物生长的活动。


Code: 849
English Term: biological effect
Definition: Biological effects include allergic reactions, respiratory disorders, hypersensitivity diseases and infectious diseases and can be caused by a variety of contaminants and pollutants.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 生物效应
Translation: 生物效应包括过敏反应，呼吸失调，过敏性疾病，传染性疾病，可以由各种原因造成的污染和污染物。


Code: 11678
English Term: biological effect of pollution
Definition: Effects of pollution on living systems.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 污染的生物效应
Translation: 污染对生物系统的的影响。


Code: 851
English Term: biological engineering
Definition: The application of engineering principles and techniques to living organisms. It is largely concerned with the design of replacement body parts, such as limbs, heart valves, etc.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 生物工程
Translation: 工程原理和技术在生物体的应用。它在很大程度上涉及如更换假肢、心脏瓣膜等身体部位的取代设计。


Code: 10136
English Term: biological heritage
Definition: The inheritance and preservation of the earth's or a particular region's balanced, integrated functionality as a natural habitat, with special concern for the water resources necessary to maintain the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 生物遗产
Translation: 对地球或者某个作为一个自然栖息地的特定区域的均衡和综合功能的继承和保护，尤其是对水资源需求的特别关注，以维持生态系统。


Code: 856
English Term: biological indicator
Definition: A species or organism that is used to grade environmental quality or change.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 生物标志物
Translation: 用于指示环境质量或变化的一个物种或生物，

Code: 861
English Term: biological monitoring
Definition: The direct measurement of changes in the biological status of a habitat, based on evaluations of the number and distribution of individuals or species before and after a change.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 生物监测
Translation: 基于个体或物种的数量和分布的前后变化的测评，对生物的栖息地状况的变化直接测量。


Code: 862
English Term: biological nitrogen fixation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 生物固氮
Translation:



Code: 864
English Term: biological pest control
Definition: Any living organism applied to or introduced into the environment that is intended to function as a pesticide against another organism declared to be a pest.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 生物虫害控制
Translation: 任何适用于或者被引进到环境中作为害虫的杀虫剂的生物体。


Code: 865
English Term: biological pollutant
Definition: Viruses, bacteria, fungi, and mammal and bird antigens that may be present in the environment and cause many health effects.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 生物污染物
Translation: 可存在于环境中，导致许多健康影响的那些病毒，细菌，真菌和哺乳动物和鸟类抗原。


Code: 866
English Term: biological pollution
Definition: Disturbance of the ecological balance by the accidental or deliberate introduction of a foreign organism, animal or plant species into an environment.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 生物污染
Translation: 意外地或故意把外来生物引进到环境中，对生态平衡造成的紊乱。


Code: 867
English Term: biological process
Definition: Processes concerning living organisms.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 生物过程
Translation: 与生物体有关的过程。


Code: 868
English Term: biological production
Definition: 1) The amount and rate of production which occur in a given ecosystem over a given time period. It may apply to a single organism, a population, or entire communities and ecosystems.&#10; 2) The quantity of organic matter or its equivalent in dry matter, carbon, or energy content which is accumulated during a given period of time.&#10;(Source: PARCOR /  MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物生产
Translation: 1）在一个特定的生态系统发生在一个特定时期的生产的数量和速率。它可以适用于一个单一的有机体，一个物群，或整个社区和生态系统。&#10;2）在一段特定时期累计的有机物质的数量，或者它在干物重、碳或者能量含量方面的等价物的数量。


Code: 7137
English Term: biological reserve
Definition: An area of land and/or of water designated as having protected status for purposes of preserving certain biological features. Reserves are managed primarily to safeguard these features and provide opportunities for research into the problems underlying the management of natural sites and of vegetation and animal populations. Regulations are normally imposed controlling public access and disturbance.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 生物保护区
Translation: 为保存某些生物特征而故意保护某一块地域或者水域的状态。保存主要是为了保障这些特征并且提供机会以便深入研究在自然遗址、植被和动物种群管理上的问题。通常要制定条例来控制公共进入和干扰。


Code: 873
English Term: biological resource
Definition: Wild organisms harvested for subsistence, commerce, or recreation (such as fish, game, timber or furbearers); domesticated organisms raised by agriculture, aquaculture, and silviculture; and ecosystems cropped by livestock.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 生物资源
Translation: 为生活、商业或娱乐（例如鱼，野味，木材或毛皮动物）获得的野生生物；农业、水产养殖、林业驯养的生物以及附近的的生态系统。

Code: 11771
English Term: biological test
Definition: The laboratory determination of the effects of substances upon specific living organisms.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 生物活性测试
Translation: 物质对特定的活生物体影响的实验室测定。


Code: 12601
English Term: biological treatment
Definition: Process that uses microorganisms to decompose organic wastes either into water, carbon dioxide, and simple inorganic substances, or into simpler organic substances, such as aldehydes and acids. The purpose of a biological treatment system is to control the environment for microorganisms so that their growth and activity are enhanced, and provide a means for maintaining high concentration of the microorganisms in contact with the wastes.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 生物处理
Translation: 使用微生物将有机物分解成水、二氧化碳和简单的无机物，或者简单的有机物，如醛和酸。一个生物处理系统的目的是控制的微生物的环境，来增强它们的生长和活动，并为维护与废弃物接触高浓度的微生物方法。提供一个方法来维持那些与废弃物接触的微生物的高浓度。


Code: 878
English Term: biological waste gas purification
Definition: Processes for removing impurities from waste gas based on the employing of microorganisms.&#10;(Source: BIOTGLa)
Chinese Term: 生物废气处理
Translation: 从使用微生物得到的废气中去除杂质的过程。


Code: 879
English Term: biological waste treatment
Definition: A generic term applied to processes that use microorganisms to decompose organic wastes either into water, carbon dioxide, and simple inorganic substances, such as aldehydes and acids. The purpose of biological waste treatment is to control either the environment for microorganisms so that their growth and activity are enhanced, and to provide a means for maintaining high concentrations of the microorganisms in contact with the wastes.
Chinese Term: 生物废物处理
Translation: 一个适用于使用微生物分解有机物的过程的通用术语。微生物把有机废弃物分解成水、二氧化碳和简单的无机物质，如醛和酸。对生物废料处理的目的是控制微生物的环境使得它们的生长和活动得到增强，并且提供一个方法来维护与废弃物接触得微生物的高浓度。

Code: 12287
English Term: biological wastewater treatment
Definition: Types of wastewater treatment in which biochemical or bacterial action is intensified to oxidize and stabilize the unstable organic matter present. Examples of this type of treatment use intermittent sand filters, trickling filters, and activated sludge processes and sludge digestion.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 生物废水处理
Translation: 废水处理的类型，通过生化或细菌作用，使目前的不稳定有机质被氧化和变得稳定。这种类型的例子，是使用间歇性砂过滤器，滴滤池，活性污泥法处理及污泥消化。


Code: 9149
English Term: biological water balance
Definition: The amount of ingoing and outgoing water in a system, which are assumed to be equal in the long term so that the water budget will balance.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 生物水平衡
Translation: 在一个系统中水的出入量，这是假设在长期情况下，出入量相等，从而使得水的预算平衡。


Code: 880
English Term: biological weapon
Definition: Living organisms (or infective material derived from them) which are intended to cause disease or death in animals, plants, or man, and which depend for their effects on their ability to multiply in the person, animal or plant attacked. Various living organisms (for example, rickettsiae, viruses and fungi), as well as bacteria, can be used as weapons.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 生物武器
Translation: 生物体（或从中得到的感染性物质），它们造成疾病或动物、植物或人死亡，并依靠他们对在受被攻击的人、动物或植物中自身复制能力的影响。各种生物体（例如，立克次氏体，病毒和真菌），和细菌一样，可以作为武器。


Code: 881
English Term: biology
Definition: A division of the natural sciences concerned with the study of life and living organisms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物学
Translation: 涉及生命和活的有机体的研究，是自然科学的一个分支。


Code: 882
English Term: bioluminescence
Definition: The production of light of various colors by living organisms (e.g. some bacteria and fungi, glow-worms and many marine animals). Luminescence is produced by a biochemical reaction, which is catalyzed by an enzyme. In some animals the light is used as a mating signal; in others it may be a protective device. In deep-sea forms luminous organs may serve as lanterns.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物发光
Translation: 通过生物生产各种颜色的光（例如，一些细菌和真菌，夜光虫和许多海洋动物）。发光是由生化反应产生的，由酶催化。在一些动物中，光线被用作动物交配的信号;在另外一些动物中，光是一种保护设施。深海中的发光组织可以作为灯笼。


Code: 11672
English Term: biomarker
Definition: A normal metabolite that, when present in abnormal concentrations in certain body fluids, can indicate the presence of a particular disease or toxicological condition.&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 生物标记
Translation: 一个正常的代谢物，当在某些体液中的浓度异常时，可以显示出某种疾病或毒性状况的存在。


Code: 883
English Term: biomass
Definition: Biomass refers strictly speaking to the total weight of all the living things in an ecosystem. However, it has come to refer to the amount of plant and crop material that could be produced in an ecosystem for making biofuels and other raw materials used in industry, for example.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 生物量
Translation: 严格来说，生物量是指在生态系统中的所有生物的重量。然而，它已经被用来指，在一个生态系统中，可以产生的可以用于制造生物燃料和工业用其他原料的植物或者农作物的数量。


Code: 885
English Term: biomass energy
Definition: A renewable energy source that makes use of such biofuels as methane (biogas) generated by sewage, farm, industrial, or household organic waste materials. Other biofuels include trees grown in so-called "energy forests" or other plants, such as sugar cane, grown for their energy potential. Biomass energy relies on combustion and therefore produces carbon dioxide; its use would not, therefore, alleviate the greenhouse effect.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 生物质能（iciba）生物量能量(台)
Translation: 可再生能源，利用生物燃料，例如从污水、农业、工业、或家庭产生的有机废弃物中得到甲烷（沼气）。其他生物燃料包括在"能源森林"中生长的树或其他的植物，例如甘蔗，增长为他们的能源潜力。生物质能依靠燃烧，因此生产二氧化碳;因此，它的利用不能缓和温室效应。




Code: 888
English Term: biophysics
Definition: The hybrid science involving the application of physical principles and methods to study and explain the structures of living organisms and the mechanics of life processes.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物物理学
Translation: 一种混合科学，涉及到物理原理和方法的应用以研究和解释生物结构和生命过程的力学。


Code: 889
English Term: bioreactor
Definition: A container, such as a large fermentation chamber, for growing living organisms that are used in the industrial production of substances such as pharmaceuticals, antibodies, or vaccines.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 生物反应器
Translation: 一个供生物体生长的容器，如大型发酵室，用于工业生产制药，抗体或疫苗等。


Code: 890
English Term: biorhythm
Definition: A cyclically recurring pattern of physiological states in an organism or organ, such as alpha rhythm or circadian rhythm; believed by some to affect physical and mental states and behaviour.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 生物节律
Translation: 一种在有生物体或器官中的生理状态的周期性循环模式，例如阿尔法节律或者昼夜节律；某些人相信它可以影响身体和心理状态以及行为。

Code: 891
English Term: biosafety
Definition: The combination of knowledge, techniques and equipment used to manage or contain potentially infectious materials or biohazards in the laboratory environment, to reduce or prevent harm to laboratory workers, other persons and the environment.&#10;(Source: BIOSAF / OHS)
Chinese Term: 生物安全
Translation: 生物安全是一种知识、技术和设备的结合，为了减少或避免损害实验室工作人员、其他人员和环境，用来在实验室环境中管理或者容纳潜在的传染性物质或生物危害。


Code: 892
English Term: biosphere
Definition: That part of the Earth and atmosphere capable of supporting living organisms.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 生物圈
Translation: 地球和大气能够支持生物体的部分。


Code: 894
English Term: biosphere reserve
Definition: Protected land and coastal areas that are approved under the Man and Biosphere programme (MAB) in conjunction with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). Each reserve has to have an ecosystem that is recognized for its diversity and usefulness as a conservation unit. The reserves have at least one core area where there can be no interference with the natural ecosystem. A transition zone surrounds this and within it scientific research is allowed. Beyond this is a buffer zone which protects the whole reserve from agricultural, industrial and urban development. Biosphere reserves and buffer zones were regarded as examples of a new generation of conservation techniques.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 生物圈保护区
Translation: 在人与生物圈计划（MAB）和对濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约（CITES）中一致通过的，受保护的土地或沿海地区。每个保护区有一个因它作为保护单位的多样性和实用性受到认可的生态系统，。这些保护区至少有一个核心领域，不能受到自然生态系统的任何干扰。围绕围绕这个的过渡地带，过渡地带允许科学研究。除此之外，是一个保护整个保护区免受农业、工业和城市发展影响的的缓冲地带。生物圈保护区和缓冲区被视为一种新一代保护技术的例子。


Code: 895
English Term: biosynthesis
Definition: Production, by synthesis or degradation, of a chemical compound by a living organism.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 生物合成
Translation: 在活的有机体中，通过合成或降解生产化学化合物的。


Code: 12814
English Term: biotechnological hazard
Definition: A danger to humans, animals or the environment posed by the application of advanced biological techniques in the manufacture of industrial products, such as the risk or harm that results from exposure to infectious bacteria, viruses or fungi.&#10;(Source: APD / FFD)
Chinese Term: 生物技术风险
Translation: 一个对人类、动物或环境造成的危险，它是由先进的生物技术在工业产品的生产应用所带来的，例如从接触到感染细菌，病毒或真菌造成的风险或者伤害。


Code: 898
English Term: biotechnology
Definition: A combination of biology and technology. It is used to describe developments in the application of biological organisms for commercial and scientific purposes. So "bio" stands for biology and the science of life, and "tech" stands for technology, or the tools and techniques that the biotechnologists have in their workbox. Those tools and techniques include microorganisms and a range of methods for manipulating them, such as genetic engineering.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 生物技术
Translation: 生物学与技术的结合。它是用来描述在商业和科学用途的生物有机体的应用发展。因此，“bio”代表生物学和生命科学，“tech”代表在生物技术家们拥有的技术或工具和技术，这些工具和技术包含微生物和一系列用于操作它们的方法，如基因工程。


Code: 899
English Term: biotic factor
Definition: The influence upon the environment of organisms owing to the presence and activities of other organisms, as distinct from a physical, abiotic, environmental factor.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 生物因素
Translation: 由于存在和其他生物有机体的活动对生物环境的影响。不同于物理、非生物、环境因素。


Code: 11786
English Term: biotic index
Definition: Scale for showing the quality of an environment by indicating the types of organisms present in it (e.g. how clean a river is).&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 生物指数
Translation: 是通过指示目前的生物种类来显示环境质量的一种量度。


Code: 901
English Term: biotope
Definition: A region of relatively uniform environmental conditions, occupied by a given plant community and its associated animal community.&#10;(Source: PAENS)
Chinese Term: 群落生境
Translation: 一个环境条件相对比较统一的地区，被一个给定的植物群落以及与其相关的动物群落占领。


Code: 902
English Term: biotope network
Definition: Intersection of corridors connecting patchy ecological communities. Species survival tends to be higher in patches that have higher connectivity.&#10;(Source: PARCORa)
Chinese Term: 群落生境网络
Translation: 连接疏散的生态群落的交叉口。物种在与其他物种联系更紧密时，它们的生存趋向于更高级。


Code: 10189
English Term: biotope order
Definition: An ordinance or decree regarding an area of ecological habitat that is characterized by a high degree of uniformity in its environmental conditions and in its distribution of plants and animals.&#10;(Source: DOE /  OED)
Chinese Term: 群落生境秩序
Translation: 针对生态栖息地的法令或法规。生态栖息地的特点是，环境条件和植物和动物的分布高度一致。


Code: 903
English Term: biotope protection
Definition: Measures taken to ensure that the biological and physical components of a biotope are in equilibrium by maintaining constant their relative numbers and features.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 群落生境保护
Translation: 通过保持恒定的相对数量和特征以确保一个群落生境的生物和物理组件处于均衡状态，而采取的措施，。

Code: 912
English Term: bird
Definition: Any of the warm-blooded vertebrates which make up the class Aves.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鸟
Translation: 任何组成鸟类的恒温脊椎动物。

Code: 914
English Term: bird of prey
Definition: Any of various carnivorous bird of the orders Falconiformes and Strigiformes which feed on meat taken by hunting.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 猛禽
Translation: 隼形目和鸮形目（捕猎食肉）的食肉鸟类。

Code: 913
English Term: bird sanctuary
Definition: Special area where birds are protected.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 鸟类保护区
Translation: 鸟类受保护的特定区域。

Code: 915
English Term: bird species
Definition: Any species of the warm-blooded vertebrates which make up the class Aves.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鸟种类
Translation: 组成鸟类的，属于恒温脊椎动物的任何物种。

Code: 917
English Term: birth control
Definition: Limitation of the number of children born by preventing or reducing the frequency of impregnation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 计划生育
Translation: 通过防止或减少受精，来限制出生子女的数目。

Code: 921
English Term: bitumen
Definition: A generic term applied to natural inflammable substances of variable colour, hardness, and volatility, composed principally of a mixture of hydrocarbons substantially free from oxygenated bodies. Bitumens are sometimes associated with mineral matter, the nonmineral constituents being fusible and largely soluble in carbon disulfide, yielding water-insoluble sulfonation products. Petroleum, asphalts, natural mineral waxes, and asphaltites are all considered bitumens.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沥青
Translation: 一个通用的术语适用于那些自然易燃物质，该物质颜色、硬度可变，具有挥发性，主要由从含氧机体中得到的碳氢化合物的混合物组成。沥青有时候和矿物质相联系，易燃的，可大量融于二硫化碳（水不溶性磺化产品）的非矿物质的成分。石油，沥青，天然矿物蜡及沥青柏油都被认为是沥青。


Code: 926
English Term: black coal
Definition: A natural black graphitelike material used as a fuel, formed from fossilized plants and consisting of amorphous carbon with various organic and some inorganic compounds.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 黑煤
Translation: 一种作为燃料的自然黑色类石墨材料，由植物化石形成，并且组成各种有机和一些无机化合物的无定形碳。


Code: 14842
English Term: Black Sea
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 黑海
Translation:



Code: 930
English Term: blast furnace
Definition: A tall, cylindrical smelting furnace for reducing iron ore to pig iron; the blast of air blown through solid fuel increases the combustion rate.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 高炉
Translation: 一个高大的为减少铁矿石冶炼生铁的圆柱形炉；吹入空气来增加固体燃料的燃烧率。


Code: 932
English Term: bleaching agent
Definition: 1) A chemical, such as an aromatic acyl peroxide or monoperoxiphthalic acid, used to bleach flour, fats, oils and other edibles. &#10;2) An oxidizing or reducing chemical such as sodium hypochlorite, sulfur dioxide, sodium acid sulfite, or hydrogen peroxide.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 漂白剂
Translation: 1)一种化学物质，如芳香酰基过氧化物或monoperoxiphthalic酸，用来漂白面粉，油脂，油和其他食品。&#10;2)一种氧化还原物，如次氯酸钠，二氧化硫，亚硫酸盐钠酸，或过氧化氢。


Code: 933
English Term: bleaching clay
Definition: Clay capable of chemically adsorbing oils, insecticides, alkaloids, vitamins, carbohydrates and other materials; it is used for refining and decolorizing mineral and vegetable oils.&#10;(Source: WRES)
Chinese Term: 漂白黏土
Translation: 这种粘土有化学吸附油脂、杀虫剂、生物碱、维生素、碳水化合物和其他材料的能力；它是用于提炼和脱色矿物和植物油。


Code: 934
English Term: bleaching process
Definition: 1) Removing colored components from a textile. Common bleaches are hydrogen peroxide, sodium hypochloride, and sodium chlorite. &#10;2) The brightening and delignification of pulp by the addition of oxidizing chemicals such as chlorine or reducing chemicals such as sodium hypochloride.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 漂白过程
Translation: 1.去除纺织品色组成部分。普通漂白剂有过氧化氢，次氯酸钠和亚氯酸钠。&#10;2.纸浆的漂白和木素脱通过添加氧化物来实现，如氯，或者还原物，如次氯酸钠。


Code: 935
English Term: blood (tissue)
Definition: A fluid connective tissue consisting of the plasma and cells that circulate in the blood vessels.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 血液（组织）
Translation: 一种在血管中循环的，由血浆和细胞组成的，液状结缔组织。


Code: 939
English Term: blue-green alga
Definition: Microorganisms, formerly classified as algae but now regarded as bacteria, including nostoc, which contain a blue pigment in addition to chlorophyll.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 蓝绿色藻类
Translation: 微生物，原属于藻类，但现在被视为细菌，包括念珠藻（除了含有叶绿素外，还含有蓝色色素）。


Code: 945
English Term: boating
Definition: To travel or go in a boat as a form of recreation.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 划船
Translation: 在船上旅行或作为一种娱乐。


Code: 10217
English Term: bocage
Definition: The wooded countryside characteristic of northern France, with small irregular-shaped fields and many hedges and copses. In the French language the word bocage refers both to the hedge itself and to a landscape consisting of hedges. Bocage landscapes usually have a slightly rolling landform, and are found mainly in maritime climates. Being a small-scale, enclosed landscape, the bocage offers much variations in biotopes, with habitats for birds, small mammals, amphibians, reptiles and butterflies.&#10;(Source: CED /  DOBRIS)
Chinese Term: 用树木围隔的田地或草地
Translation: 法国北部的丛林农村的特点，小而不规则，并有许多树篱和灌木。在法语中，bocage既指树篱本身又指由树篱组成的景观。Bocage景观通常是稍微弯曲的地貌，主要在海上气候的地区出现。作为一个小规模的、封闭的景观，bocage为不同的群落提供了栖息地，有鸟类、小型哺乳动物、两栖动物、爬行动物和蝴蝶等。


Code: 12161
English Term: bog
Definition: A commonly used term in Scotland and Ireland for a stretch waterlogged, spongy ground, chiefly composed of decaying vegetable matter, especially of rushes, cotton grass, and sphagnum moss.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 沼泽
Translation: 一个术语，经常用来描述苏格兰和爱尔兰的延伸的水浸的海绵地面，主要由腐烂的植物构成，特别是灯心草，棉花草，水苔。


Code: 953
English Term: boiler
Definition: An enclosed vessel in which water is heated and circulated, either as hot water or as steam, for heating or power.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 锅炉
Translation: 一个封闭的容器，无论是热水或蒸汽都被循环加热，用来加热或产生动力。


Code: 954
English Term: boiling point
Definition: The temperature at which the transition from the liquid to the gaseous phase occurs in a pure substance at fixed pressure.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 沸点
Translation: 在一个固定的压力下，一种纯净物从液体变成气体的最低温度。


Code: 959
English Term: book
Definition: A collection of leaves of paper, parchment or other material, usually bound or fastened together within covers, containing writing of any type or blank pages for future inscription.&#10;(Source: CCL / RHW)
Chinese Term: 书
Translation: 由若干页纸，羊皮纸或其他材料组成的集合，通常夹在封皮装订好，包含任何写作类型的纸或者为将来题词用得空白纸张。


Code: 961
English Term: bookkeeping
Definition: The art or science of recording business accounts and transactions.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 簿记
Translation: 专门用来记录商业账目或者交易。


Code: 963
English Term: border
Definition: The dividing line or frontier between political or geographic regions.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 边境
Translation: 政治或地理区域之间的分界线或者边疆。


Code: 965
English Term: boron
Definition: A very hard almost colourless crystalline metalloid element that in impure form exists as a brown amorphous powder. It occurs principally in borax and is used in hardening steel.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 硼
Translation: 一种非常坚硬的无色的非金属晶体元素，以不纯的形式存在于一种棕色无定形粉末。它主要出现在硼砂中，并在硬化钢中使用。


Code: 10652
English Term: botanical conservatory
Definition: Gardens for the conservation of rare species of plants.&#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term: 植物园温室（iciba）
Translation: 为保护植物中的稀有物种的园林。


Code: 969
English Term: botanical garden
Definition: A place in which plants are grown, studied and exhibited.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 植物园
Translation: 植物生长的地方、研究和展出的地方。


Code: 971
English Term: botany
Definition: A branch of the biological sciences which embraces the study of plants and plant life.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 植物学
Translation: 生物科学的分支，包含了植物和植物生活的研究。


Code: 13124
English Term: bottle cap
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 瓶盖
Translation:



Code: 975
English Term: boundary crossing
Definition: Crossing of a state border.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 边界过境点
Translation: 一个国家的边界过境点。


Code: 976
English Term: boundary layer
Definition: The layer of fluid adjacent to a physical boundary in which the fluid motion is significantly affected by the boundary and has a mean velocity less than the free stream value.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 边界层
Translation: 与物理边界相邻的流体层，其中边界对流体运动有重大影响，具有平均流速低于自由流的值。


Code: 977
English Term: bovid
Definition: Any animal belonging to the Bovidae family.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 牛科动物
Translation: 任何属于牛科家族的动物。


Code: 13639
English Term: bovine
Definition:
Chinese Term: 牛
Translation:



Code: 984
English Term: brackish water
Definition: Water, salty between the concentrations of fresh water and sea water; usually 5-10 parts x thousand.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 淡海水
Translation: 盐度介于淡水和海水盐分浓度之间的水;usually 5-10 parts x thousand.



Code: 986
English Term: bradyseism
Definition: A long-continued, extremely slow vertical instability of the crust, as in the volcanic district west of Naples, Italy, where the Phlegraean bradyseism has involved up-and-down movements between 6 m below sea level and 6 m above over a period of more than 2.000 years.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 海陆运动   地壳的缓慢升降运动  ？？
Translation: 地壳的长期持续的、极其缓慢的垂直不稳定性，如在那不勒斯、意大利火山区西部，在超过2000年的时间里，Phlegraean海陆运动涉及了海拔6m以上和6m以下的升降运动。


Code: 13229
English Term: branch of activity
Definition: A specialized division of a business or other organization.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 业务
Translation: 一个企业或其他组织的专业化分工。


Code: 992
English Term: breast milk
Definition: Milk from the breast for feeding babies.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 母乳
Translation: 来自乳房的奶，用于喂养婴儿。


Code: 994
English Term: breeding
Definition: The application of genetic principles to the improvement of farm animals and cultivated plants.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 选育
Translation: 遗传原则的应用，用于家畜改良和栽培植物。


Code: 995
English Term: breeding bird
Definition: The individuals in a bird population that are involved in reproduction during a particular period in a given place.&#10;(Source: ALL2a)
Chinese Term: 繁殖鸟
Translation: 鸟类种群中的个体，涉及到在一个特定时期、特定地点的繁殖。


Code: 11198
English Term: breeding technique
Definition: Term referring to the systems employed in animal rearing (extensive and intensive).&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 育种技术
Translation: 术语，指在动物饲养（广泛和深入的）采用的系统。


Code: 997
English Term: brewing industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of beverages made from malt and hops by steeping, boiling and fermentation, such as beer, ale and other related beverages.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 酿造业
Translation: 一个经济分支，指那些从事饮品制造和销售的商业企业，它们通过浸泡、煮沸、发酵，用麦芽和啤酒花作为原料来制造及销售饮品，如啤酒，汽水及其他相关饮料。


Code: 998
English Term: brick
Definition: A building material usually made from clay, molded as a rectangular block, and baked or burned in a kiln.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 砖
Translation: 一种建筑材料，通常是由粘土做成一个矩形块，经历烤或烧窑制得。


Code: 1001
English Term: bridge
Definition: A structure that spans and provides a passage over a road, railway, river, or some other obstacle.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 桥
Translation: 一种横跨公路、铁路、河流或其他障碍，并且可供通过的结构。


Code: 10568
English Term: broad-leaved tree
Definition: Deciduous tree which has wide leaves, as opposed to the needles on conifers.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 阔叶树
Translation: 树叶宽大的落叶乔木，与针叶林相对。


Code: 1007
English Term: bromine
Definition: A pungent dark red volatile liquid element of the halogen series that occurs in brine and is used in the production of chemicals.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 溴
Translation: 挥发性、刺激性的暗红色液体，属于卤素元素系列，用于化学品的生产。


Code: 1014
English Term: brooding
Definition: To incubate eggs or cover the young for warmth.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 孵卵
Translation: 为了孵化鸡蛋或覆盖取暖。


Code: 1015
English Term: brook
Definition: A small stream or rivulet, commonly swiftly flowing in rugged terrain, of lesser length and volume than a creek; especially a stream that issues directly from the ground, as from a spring or seep, or that is produced by heavy rainfall or melting snow.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 溪
Translation: 一条小溪或溪流，通常在崎岖地形迅速流动，长度和体积比河小；特别是直接从地面形成的流，由泉水或渗漏，或由暴雨或冰雪融化产生的。


Code: 1020
English Term: brushwood
Definition: Woody vegetation including shrubs and scrub trees of non-commercial height and form, often seen in the initial stages of succession following a disturbance. Brush often grows in very dense thickets that are impenetrable to wild animals and serve to suppress the growth of more desirable crop trees. However, brush can also serve an important function as desirable habitat for a range or bird, animal, and invertebrate species, and often provides a good source of browse and cover for larger wildlife. It adds structural diversity within the forest and is important in riparian zones. It is also termed scrub.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 矮灌木丛
Translation: 木本植被，包括非商业用的高度和形式的灌木丛和树木，多见于被干扰之后的初始阶段。灌木丛通常生长在茂密的树丛里，野生动物很难将其摧折，并且抑制其他树木生长。然而，灌木丛有一个重要的用途就是作为鸟类、动物和无脊椎动物物种的理想栖息地，而且经常可以给动物们作为草食，并且可以覆盖较大的野生动物。它增加了在森林结构的多样性，在沿岸地很重要。它也被称为矮树丛。


Code: 1023
English Term: bryophyte
Definition: Any plant of the division Bryophyta, having stems and leaves but lacking true vascular tissue and roots and reproducing by spores: includes the mosses and liverworts.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 苔藓类植物
Translation: 任何苔藓植物的分支，有茎、叶，但缺乏真正的维管束组织和根，孢子繁殖：包括苔藓和苔类。


Code: 1024
English Term: bubble policy (emissions trading)
Definition: EPA policy that allows a plant complex with several facilities to decrease pollution from some facilities while increasing it from others, so long as total results are equal to or better than previous limits. Facilities where this is done are treated as if they exist in a bubble in which total emissions are averaged out.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 泡泡政策（排放贸易）
Translation: 环保局的政策是，允许设施复杂的工厂，在增加其它设施污染的同时，减少一部分设施的污染，只要总结果等于或优于以前的限制。像这样处理过的设施，就好像它们存在于一个总排放量被平均的气泡中。


Code: 1025
English Term: budget
Definition: A balance sheet or statement of estimated receipts and expenditures. A plan for the coordination of resource and expenditures. The amount of money that is available for, required for, or assigned to a particular purpose.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 预算
Translation: 记录预计收入和支出的负债表或声明。协调资源和支出的计划。为了一个特定目的，可用的，需要的或者被分配的开支。




Code: 13137
English Term: budget policy
Definition: The programmatic use of a government's spending and revenue-generating activities to influence the economy and achieve specific objectives.&#10;(Source: MGHME)
Chinese Term: 预算政策
Translation: 影响经济和实现具体目标的，政府的支出和产生收入活动的程序化使用。


Code: 1028
English Term: bug
Definition: Any of the suborder Heteroctera, having piercing and sucking mouthparts, specialized as a beak.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 臭虫
Translation: 任何亚异角类动物，有刺吸式的口器——专门的喙。



Code: 1029
English Term: building
Definition: Something built with a roof and walls, such as a house or factory.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 建筑物
Translation: 有屋顶和墙壁的东西，如工厂的房子。



Code: 1031
English Term: building area
Definition: Land and other places on, under, in or through which the temporary and permanent works are to be executed and any other lands or places needed for the purposes of construction.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 建筑区
Translation: 正在实施的临时和永久的建筑工作的土地或者其他地方，以及其他用于建筑目的的任何土地或地方。


Code: 1033
English Term: building component
Definition: A building element which uses industrial products that are manufactured as independent until capable of being joined with other elements.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 建筑组件
Translation: 使用工业产品的建筑元素。这些建筑元素在和其他元素混合之前都是独立的。



Code: 11355
English Term: building destruction
Definition: The tearing down of buildings by mechanical means.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 建筑破坏
Translation: 通过机械手段对建筑物的拆除。



Code: 1039
English Term: building industry
Definition: The art and technique of building houses.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 建筑业
Translation: 建筑房屋的艺术和技术。


Code: 1041
English Term: building land
Definition: Area of land suitable for building on.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 建筑土地
Translation: 适合建筑大楼的土地。



Code: 1042
English Term: building material
Definition: Any material used in construction, such as steel, concrete, brick, masonry, glass, wood, etc.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 建筑材料
Translation: 任何用于建设的材料，例如钢铁、混凝土、砖、砌石、玻璃、木材等。


Code: 1044
English Term: building materials industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 建筑材料工业
Translation:



Code: 11504
English Term: building permit
Definition: Authorization required by local governmental bodies for the erection of an enclosed structure or for the major alteration or expansion of an existing edifice.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 建筑许可证
Translation: 为了架设封闭的结构或对其进行重要的修改或扩大现有的建筑所需要的当地政府机构颁发的授权，。



Code: 1046
English Term: building planning
Definition: The activity of designing, organizing or preparing for future construction or reconstruction of edifices and facilities.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 建筑计划
Translation: 对建筑物和设施的将来建设和重建的设计、组织和准备活动。


Code: 1049
English Term: building regulation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 建筑物条例
Translation:



Code: 11375
English Term: building restoration
Definition: The accurate reestablishment of the form and details of a building, its artifacts, and the site on which it is located, usually as it appeared at a particular time.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 建筑修复
Translation: 对建设的形式和细节的精确重建，涉及到构件，建筑工地，通常出现在一个特定的时间。



Code: 13232
English Term: building service
Definition: The aggregation of services, including construction, development, maintenance and leasing, performed for human-occupied properties, such as office buildings and apartment houses.&#10;(Source: PBS)
Chinese Term: 建筑服务
Translation: 包括建造、发展、维护和租赁，为人类占有属性的服务的聚合，如办公大楼和公寓房子。



Code: 1052
English Term: building site
Definition: A piece of land on which a house or other building is being built.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 建筑工地
Translation: 房子或其他大楼正在上面建造的一块土地上。


Code: 1054
English Term: building site preparation
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 建筑地盘的准备
Translation:



Code: 1058
English Term: building technology
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 建筑技术
Translation:



Code: 1059
English Term: building waste
Definition: Masonry and rubble wastes arising from the demolition or reconstruction of buildings or other civil engineering structures.
Chinese Term: 建筑废物
Translation: 拆除或者重建的建筑物或其他土木工程构筑物，产生的碎石或废弃物。



Code: 1061
English Term: built drainage system
Definition: Collection of open and/or closed drains, together with structures and pumps used to collect and dispose of excess surface or subsurface water.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 排水系统
Translation: 开放和/或关闭的排水管道，和用来收集和消除地表多余的水或地下水的结构和管道一起，组成的集合。



Code: 1063
English Term: built environment
Definition: That part of the physical surroundings which are people-made or people-organized, such as buildings and other major structures, roads, bridges and the like, down to lesser objects such as traffic lights, telephone and pillar boxes.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 建筑环境
Translation: 人造的或者人类规划的环境的那部分，如房屋和其他主要的结构、公路、桥梁和类似的结构，还包括一些小物件，如交通灯、电话和支柱。


Code: 1064
English Term: built structure
Definition: Any structure made of stone, bricks, wood, concrete, or steel, built with a roof and walls, such as a house or factory.&#10;(Source: CEDa /  ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 建筑结构
Translation: 任何由石头、砖、木、混凝土或钢铁建造的，包括屋顶和墙壁的结构，如一座房子或者工厂。


Code: 1065
English Term: built-up area
Definition: Area which is full of houses, shops, offices and other buildings, with very little open space.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 城市建成区
Translation: 建满了房屋、商店、办公室和其它建筑的地区，空地很少。


Code: 1067
English Term: bulb cultivation
Definition: The cultivation of flower bulb is divided into two sectors: for forcing (flower bulbs used by professional growers for the production of cut flowers and potted plants) and for dry sales (flower bulbs for garden planting, flower pots, landscaping and parks).&#10;(Source: BULB)
Chinese Term: 球茎栽培
Translation: 栽培花的球茎分为两部分:用于迫使销售（专业栽培者用来生产鲜花和盆花的花根）以及干销售(用于花园种植、盆花、景观和公园的花根)。




Code: 12357
English Term: bulky waste
Definition: Large items of waste material, such as appliances, furniture, large auto parts, trees, branches, stumps, etc.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 大件废弃物
Translation: 大件的废弃材料，如电器、家具、大的汽车零件、树、树枝、树桩等。


Code: 14866
English Term: bulletin board system
Definition: An assemblage of computer hardware and software that can be linked by computer modem dialing for the purpose of sharing or exchanging messages or other files.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term: 布告板系统
Translation: 为了分享和交换消息或其他文件，可以通过调制解调器拨号连接的计算机硬件和软件组合。



Code: 1075
English Term: bureaucratisation
Definition: The multiplication of or concentration of power in administrators and administrative offices in an organization, usually resulting in an extension into and regimentation of certain areas of social life.&#10;(Source: DAM / RHW)
Chinese Term: 科层化
Translation: 在组织中，行政人员和行政办公室的权利的增加或集中，通常导致社会生活的某些领域的组织化的扩大。



Code: 1082
English Term: bus
Definition: A large, long-bodied motor vehicle equipped with seating for passengers, usually operating as part of a scheduled service.
Chinese Term: 公共汽车
Translation: 一种长的汽车，装备有给乘客乘坐的座位，通常作为定期运输服务的一部分来运作。



Code: 11270
English Term: bus station
Definition: A place along a route or line at which a bus stops for fuel or to pick up or let off passengers or goods, especially with ancillary buildings and services.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 公共汽车站
Translation: 在线路上，供公共汽车停下来加油或者让乘客或货物搭乘或下车的地方，特别是有附属建筑和服务。



Code: 12676
English Term: bush clearing
Definition: The removal of brush using mechanical means, either by cutting manually or by using machinery for crushing, rolling, flailing, or chipping it, or by chemical means or a combination of these.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 灌木清理
Translation: 使用机械方法清除灌木，或者用手工或者通过使用机械碾碎、滚压、挤压或切碎灌木，或者通过化学方法或者使用这些方法的组合。


Code: 1084
English Term: business
Definition: The activity, position or site associated with commerce or the earning of a livelihood.&#10;(Source: West's / RHW)
Chinese Term: 商业
Translation: 与贸易或者谋生相关的活动、位置或地址。


Code: 13228
English Term: business activity
Definition: Any profit-seeking undertaking or venture that involves the production, sale and purchase of goods or services.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 商业活动
Translation: 任何追求利益的事业或商业冒险，包括生产、销售及购买商品或服务。



Code: 13160
English Term: business classification
Definition: The categorization of enterprises or organizations involved in an economy.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 商业分类
Translation: 经济中的企业或组织的分类。


Code: 14949
English Term: business economics
Definition: The art of purchasing and selling goods from an economics perspective or a perspective involving the scientific study of the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 商业经济
Translation: 采购和销售的行业，从经济学角度，或者从包含生产、分配、商品和劳务消费的科学研究的角度。



Code: 13159
English Term: business organisation
Definition: A particular legal arrangement for owning a firm, the principal forms are sale trades, partnerships and companies/corporations; collective term for the system, function, process of planning, providing, coordinating, directing all efforts and resources in a business in order to achieve its goals.
Chinese Term: 商业机构
Translation: 拥有一家公司的特定的合法的安排，主要形式是销售行业、公司和企业/伙伴关系；为了实现其目标，由系统、功能、计划过程、提供、协调、指导的所有工作和资源组成的集合。




Code: 13262
English Term: business policy
Definition: The guiding procedure, philosophy or course of action for an enterprise or company organized for commercial purposes.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 商业政策
Translation: 为企业或公司组织作商业用途的指导过程、理论或措施。


Code: 1091
English Term: butterfly
Definition: Any diurnal insect of the order Lepidoptera that has a slender body with clubbed antennae and typically rests with the wings (which are often brightly coloured) closed over the back.&#10;(Source: CED)loo
Chinese Term: 蝴蝶
Translation: 鳞翅目中白天活动的昆虫，细长的身体上有棒状的触角，背部有翅膀(通常色彩鲜艳)。


Code: 1092
English Term: button-cell battery
Definition: A tiny, circular battery made for a watch or for other microelectric applications.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 纽扣电池
Translation: 一只小小的、圆的电池，用于手表或其他微型电子应用产品。


Code: 1093
English Term: by-catch
Definition: Incidental taking of non-commercial species in drift nets, trawling operations and long line fishing; it is responsible for the death of large marine animals and one factor in the threatened extinction of some species.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 混获  副渔获物
Translation: 在流网、拖网作业和海上长丝钓鱼时，对非商业性物种的意外捕获；巨型海生动物的死亡与其相关，并且它是导致一些物种濒临灭绝的一个因素。


Code: 1094
English Term: by-product
Definition: A product from a manufacturing process that is not considered the principal material.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 副产品
Translation: 从生产过程中得到的一种产品，不是考虑的主要材料。


Code: 1098
English Term: cable
Definition: Strands of insulated electrical conductors laid together, usually around a central core, and wrapped in a heavy insulation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 电缆
Translation: 由相互绝缘的导线绞合而成，通常围绕着一根中心扭成,整个外面包有高度绝缘的覆盖层。


Code: 1100
English Term: cadmium
Definition: One of the toxic heavy metal which has caused deaths and permanent illnesses in a series of major pollution incidents around the world. Cadmium has no useful biological purpose. However, it has wide industrial applications. It has been used for decades in metal plating to prevent corrosion, in rechargeable batteries and as a pigment in certain plastics and paints. Special care is taken in the industrial smelting of ores and subsequent handling of cadmium, because occupational exposure is known to have caused heart, chest and kidney disorders. Environmental health problems have come from exposure to various sources of pollution.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  镉
Translation: 一种有毒重金属，在世界各地的一系列重大污染事故中已经造成死亡和疾病。镉没有生物利用价值。然而，它被广泛地应用于工业中。在金属镀防止腐蚀、充电池、作为某种塑料和颜料方面，它被使用了几十年。在镉的熔炼矿石和后续处理中要十分小心，因为直接接触镉会导致心脏、胸腔和肾脏的功能紊乱。接触各种各样的污染来源导致了环境健康问题。


Code: 1101
English Term: cadmium contamination
Definition: The release and presence in the air, water and soil of cadmium, a toxic, metallic element, from sources such as the burning of coal and tobacco and improper disposal of cadmium-containing waste.&#10;(Source: FFD / EEN)
Chinese Term: 镉污染
Translation: 有毒金属镉在空气、水和土壤中的释放，这种污染来源于煤和烟草的燃烧及对含镉废物的不当处理。


Code: 1103
English Term: caesium
Definition: A soft silvery-white and highly reactive metal belonging to the alkali group of metals. It is a radiation hazard, because it can occur in two radioactive forms. Caesium-134 is produced in nuclear reactors, not directly by fission, but by the reaction. It emits beta- and gamma-radiation and has a half-life of 2.06 years. Caesium-137 is a fission product of uranium and occurs in the fallout from nuclear weapons. It emits beta- and gamma-rays and has a half-life of 30 years. Caesium-137 was the principal product released into the atmosphere, and hence the food chain, from atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons and from the Windscale fire and Chernobyl nuclear accidents. After the Chernobyl accident, which spread a radiation cloud across Europe, the European Commission proposed new and more restrictive limits on levels of caesium in food and drinking water.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 铯
Translation: 一种银白色高度活泼的碱金属。它有辐射危害，因为它能以两种放射性形式出现。Caesium-134在核反应堆中产生，不是直接由原子裂变，而是由化学反应产生。它放射β-射线和γ-射线，半衰期是2.06年。Caesium-137是一种铀裂变的产物，出现在核武器的放射尘中。它放射β-射线和γ-射线，半衰期是30年。从核武器的大气层试验和Windscale火灾和Chernobyl核事故。在把辐射云雾延伸到整个欧洲的Chernobyl核事故之后，欧盟委员会提出食物和饮用水中铯含量的新限制。


Code: 1111
English Term: calcium
Definition: A malleable silvery-white metallic element of the alkaline hearth group; the fifth most abundant element in the earth crust, occurring especially as forms of calcium carbonate. It is an essential constituent of bones and teeth and is used as a deoxidizer in steel.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 钙
Translation: 一种具有延展性的银白色碱金属元素，在地壳中含量排第五，通常以碳酸钙的形式存在。它是骨骼和牙齿的基本成分，并且用来作钢铁的还原剂。


Code: 1112
English Term: calcium content
Definition: Amount of calcium contained in a solution.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 含钙量
Translation: 溶液中钙的含量。


Code: 11113
English Term: calculation
Definition: The act, process or result of calculating.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 计算
Translation: 计算的行为、过程或结果。


Code: 1113
English Term: calculation method
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 计算方法
Translation:


Code: 1114
English Term: calibration
Definition: To mark the scale of a measuring instrument so that readings can be made in appropriate units.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 校准
Translation: 标记测量仪器的刻度，以便用正确的单元来读取。


Code: 1115
English Term: calibration of measuring equipment
Definition: The determination or rectification of, according to an accepted standard, the graduation of any instrument giving quantitative measurements.&#10;(Source: APD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 测量仪器的校准
Translation: 根据被认可的标准，确定或者矫正需要给予定量测量的仪器的刻度。


Code: 13550
English Term: camp
Definition: 1) A place where tents, cabins, or other temporary structures are erected for the use of military troops, for training soldiers, etc.&#10; 2) Tents, cabins, etc., used as temporary lodgings by a group of travellers, holiday-makers, Scouts, Gypsies, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 营地；临时帐篷
Translation: 1)给军事部队使用，如训练士兵等，可以搭建帐篷、棚屋或是其它临时结构。&#10;2)帐篷，小屋等，被旅行者、度假者、侦察兵和吉普赛人等用作临时住处。

Code: 1121
English Term: camping
Definition: Guarded area equipped with sanitary facilities where holiday-makers may pitch a tent and camp by paying a daily rate.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 野营地
Translation: 含有卫生设施且被防卫的地区，度假者可以在那里搭帐篷，支付费用露营。


Code: 1123
English Term: camping site
Definition: A piece of land where people on holiday can stay in tents, usually with toilets and places for washing.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 野营地点
Translation: 供度假者停留，且带有厕所、洗漱间和帐篷的地方。


Code: 1126
English Term: canal
Definition: An artificial open waterway used for transportation, waterpower, or irrigation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 运河
Translation: 一条人工开掘的水路，用来运输、水力或灌溉。


Code: 12199
English Term: canal lock
Definition: A chamber with gates on both ends connecting two sections of a canal or other waterway, to raise or lower the water level in each section.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 运河水闸
Translation: 在运河两端设置的带门的腔室，连接运河的两个区或其它运输水路，用来升高或降低每个区的水位。


Code: 1130
English Term: cancer
Definition: Any malignant cellular tumour including carcinoma and sarcoma. It encompasses a group of neoplastic diseases in which there is a transformation of normal body cells into malignant ones, probably involving some change in the genetic material of the cells, possibly as a result of faulty repair of damage to the cell caused by carcinogenic agents or ionizing radiation.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 癌症
Translation: 任何恶性细胞肿瘤，包括癌和肉瘤。它包含一系列肿瘤疾病，在这些疾病中，正常的人体细胞转变成了恶性细胞，可能包含细胞基因的突变，可能是由致癌因素或电离辐射引起的细胞修复错误而造成的。


Code: 1133
English Term: cancer risk
Definition: The probability that exposure to some agent or substance will adversely transform cells to replicate and form a malignant tumor. &#10;(Source: APD / HMD)
Chinese Term: 癌症风险
Translation: 接触某些药剂或者物质导致细胞复制并形成恶性肿瘤的可能性。


Code: 1134
English Term: canid
Definition: Carnivorous mammal in the superfamily Canoidea, including dogs and their allies.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 犬科动物
Translation: 犬型上科总科的一种食肉哺乳动物，包括狗和它的同类。



Code: 10143
English Term: canyon
Definition: A long deep, relatively narrow steep-sided valley confined between lofty and precipitous walls in a plateau or mountainous area, often with a stream at the bottom; similar to, but largest than, a gorge. It is characteristic of an arid or semiarid area (such as western U.S.) where stream downcutting greatly exceeds weathering.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 峡谷
Translation: 在高原或山区，夹在陡峭的墙壁之间又长又深、比较狭窄、两壁陡峭的山谷，通常在峡谷的底部有小溪。它具有的典型特征是水流侵蚀明显超过风化的干旱和半干旱地区（例如美国西部）。




Code: 1148
English Term: car
Definition: A four-wheeled motor vehicle used for land transport, usually propelled by a gasoline or diesel internal combustion engine.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 汽车
Translation: 用于陆地运输的四轮有篷的车辆，通常由汽油或者柴油内燃机驱动。



Code: 6046
English Term: car park
Definition: Area of ground or a building where there is space for vehicles to be parked.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 停车场
Translation: 地上或者建筑里的一处用于停放车辆的区域。


Code: 1201
English Term: car tyre
Definition: A rubber ring placed over the rim of a wheel of a road vehicle to provide traction and reduce road shocks, especially a hollow inflated ring consisting of a reinforced outer casing enclosing an inner tube.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 汽车轮胎
Translation: 公路车辆轮子的轮缘的橡胶环，提供牵引并且减少公路颠簸，是一个由圈住内胎的加强外圈组成的空心的、充气的环。



Code: 1159
English Term: carbohydrate
Definition: Any of the group of organic compounds composed of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, including sugars, starches and celluloses.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 碳水化合物
Translation: 由碳、氢、氧组成的有机化合物，包括糖、淀粉和纤维素。


Code: 1160
English Term: carbon
Definition: A nonmetallic element existing in the three crystalline forms: graphite, diamond and buckminsterfullerene: occurring in carbon dioxide, coal, oil and all organic compounds.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 碳
Translation: 一种非金属元素，以三种晶状体形式存在：石墨、金刚石和巴克敏斯特富勒烯：在二氧化碳、煤、油和有机化合物中存在。



Code: 1164
English Term: carbon cycle
Definition: The cycle of carbon in the biosphere, in which plants convert carbon dioxide to organic compounds that are consumed by plants and animals, and the carbon is returned to the biosphere in inorganic form by processes of respiration and decay.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 碳循环
Translation: 生物圈中的碳循环，在这个循环中，植物将二氧化碳转化成供植物和动物消费的有机化合物，碳元素通过呼吸和衰亡过程以无机物的形式返回到生物圈中。



Code: 1168
English Term: carbon dioxide
Definition: A colourless gas with a faint tingling smell and taste. Atmospheric carbon dioxide is the source of carbon for plants. As carbon dioxide is heavier than air and does not support combustion, it is used in fire extinguishers. It is a normal constituent of the atmosphere, relatively innocuous in itself but playing an important role in the greenhouse effect. It is produced during the combustion of fossil fuels when the carbon content of the fuels reacts with the oxygen during combustion. It is also produced when living organisms respire. It is essential for plant nutrition and in the ocean phytoplankton is capable of absorbing and releasing large quantities of the gas.&#10;(Source: UVAROV /  GILP96)
Chinese Term: 二氧化碳
Translation: 一种无色的气体，有淡淡的刺激性气味和味道。大气中的二氧化碳是植物的碳源。由于二氧化碳比空气重并且不支持燃烧，二氧化碳被用作灭火剂。它是大气的基本组成部分，相对无害，但是在温室效应中扮演着一个重要的角色。它是碳和氧气在燃烧过程中发生反应而产生的，也在生物体呼吸时产生。它是必要的植物营养，而且海洋浮游植物也能吸收和释放大量的二氧化碳。


Code: 1170
English Term: carbon dioxide tax
Definition: Compulsory charges levied on fuels to reduce the output of carbon dioxide (CO2), which is a colourless and odourless gas substance that is incombustible.&#10;(Source: ODE /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 二氧化碳税
Translation: 强制征收的燃料费，用来降低二氧化碳(CO2)的排放，该气体是一种无色无味不可燃烧的气体。



Code: 1173
English Term: carbon monoxide
Definition: Colorless, odourless, tasteless, non-corrosive, highly poisonous gas of about the same density as that of air. Very flammable, burning in air with bright blue flame. Although each molecule of CO has one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, it has a shape similar to that of an oxygen molecule (two atoms of oxygen), which is important with regard to it's lethality.&#10;(Source: PHYMAC)
Chinese Term: 一氧化碳
Translation: 无色、无味、无腐蚀性的、有剧毒的气体，密度和空气一样大。极易燃烧，在空气中燃烧时，有明亮的蓝色火焰。尽管每一个一氧化碳分子有一个碳原子一个氧原子，但它的形状和氧分子相似，这是一氧化碳致死性的一个重要因素。



Code: 1162
English Term: carbonate
Definition: A salt or ester of carbonic acid.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 碳酸盐
Translation: 碳酸的盐类或酯类。



Code: 1177
English Term: carcass disposal
Definition: The disposal of slaughtered animals, other dead animal bodies and animal body parts after removal of the offal products.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: （动物的）尸体处理
Translation: 对杀死的动物、其它动物尸体和移除了废物后的动物身体部分的处置。



Code: 1182
English Term: carcinogen
Definition: A substance that causes cancer in humans and animals.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 致癌物
Translation: 导致人类和动物致癌的物质。



Code: 1180
English Term: carcinogenicity
Definition: The ability or tendency of a substance or physical agent to cause or produce cancer.&#10;(Source: CONFER)
Chinese Term: 致癌性
Translation: 一种物质或物理因素引起癌症的能力或趋势。



Code: 1181
English Term: carcinogenicity test
Definition: Test for assessing if a chemical or physical agent increases the risk of cancer. The three major ways of testing for carcinogens are animals tests, epidemiological studies and bacterial tests.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 致癌性试验
Translation: 一种测试，用来评估一种化学或物理因素是否增加癌症危险。对致癌物的三种测试方法是动物测试、流行病学研究以及细菌测试。



Code: 1184
English Term: cardiology
Definition: The study of the heart.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 心(脏)病学
Translation: 对心脏的研究。


Code: 1185
English Term: cardiovascular disease
Definition:
Chinese Term: 心血管疾病
Translation:



Code: 11836
English Term: cardiovascular system
Definition: Those structures, including the heart and blood vessels, which provide channels for the flow of blood.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 心血管系统
Translation: 为血液流动提供通道的结构，包括心脏和血管。



Code: 1190
English Term: Caribbean Area
Definition: A geographical region bordered on the south by South America and Panama, and on the west by Central America, and consisting of the West Indian, and nearby, islands and the Caribbean Sea, a part of the western Atlantic Ocean.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 加勒比地区
Translation: 南邻南美洲和巴拿马，西接中美洲的一块地理区域，是组成西印度的一部分，在它的附近，是大西洋西部的一部分——海岛和加勒比海。


Code: 1191
English Term: carnivore
Definition: An animal that eats meat.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 食肉动物
Translation: 食肉的动物。


Code: 1199
English Term: carry-over effect
Definition: Effect caused by the successive passages of polluting substances through the different organisms of a food chain.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 延期生效
Translation: 在食物链中污染物质通过不同的生物体的连续过程所引起的效果。



Code: 1200
English Term: cartography
Definition: The making of maps and charts for the purpose of visualizing spatial distributions over various areas of the earth.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 制图学
Translation: 制造地图和图表，目的是将地球上不同地区的空间进行划分和可视化。


Code: 1203
English Term: cash crop
Definition: Crops that are grown for sale in the town markets or for export. They include coffee, cocoa, sugar, vegetables, peanuts and non-foods, like tobacco and cotton. Huge areas of countries in the developing world have been turned over to cash crops. Those countries with no mineral or oil resources depend on cash crops for foreign money, so that they can import materials do develop roads, for construction, or to buy Western consumer goods and, indeed, food. However, critics argue that cash crops are planted on land that would otherwise be used to grow food for the local community and say this is a cause of world famine. Cash crops, such as peanuts, can ruin the land if it is not left fallow after six years of harvests. Moreover, if the best agricultural land is used for cash crops, local farmers are forced to use marginal land to grow food for local consumption, and this has a further dramatic effect on the environment.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 经济作物
Translation: 供市场出售或出口而种植的农作物。包括咖啡、可可、糖、蔬菜、花生和非食用作物，如烟草、棉花。发展中世界的很多国家已经转向了种植经济作物。那些没有矿产、石油资源的国家依靠经济作物来获取外币，以使它们能够在建筑方面通过进口材料来建设道路，或者购买西方消费产品以及食物。然而，有评论说，经济作物种植在了那些可以供当地居民种植食物的土地上，这是导致世界饥荒的一个原因。经济作物，例如花生如果在收获之后不休耕六年就会毁坏土地。再者，如果最好的农耕土地用来种植经济作物，当地农民不得不用边际土地来种植食物以供当地消费，这将进一步影响环境。





Code: 14843
English Term: Caspian Sea
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 里海
Translation:



Code: 1209
English Term: catalysis
Definition: A phenomenon in which a relatively small amount of substance augments the rate of a chemical reaction without itself being consumed.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 催化作用
Translation: 一种现象，在这种现象中，某种少量的物质加速了化学反应，而它本身却没有被消耗。


Code: 1210
English Term: catalyst
Definition: A substance whose presence alters the rate at which a chemical reaction proceeds, but whose own composition remains unchanged by the reaction. Catalysts are usually employed to accelerate reactions(positive catalyst), but retarding (negative) catalysts are also used.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 催化剂
Translation: 一种物质，它的存在影响了化学反应进行的速度，但是其本身的组成保持不变。催化剂通常用来加速反应（正催化剂），但是缓速催化剂（负催化剂）也被使用。


Code: 1212
English Term: catalytic converter
Definition: Catalytic converters are designed to clean up the exhaust fumes from petrol-driven vehicles, which are otherwise the major threat to air quality standards in congested urban streets and on motorways. Converters remove carbon monoxide, the unburned hydrocarbons and the oxides of nitrogen. These compounds are damaging to human health and the environment in a variety of ways. The converter is attached to the vehicle' s exhaust near the engine. Exhaust gases pass through the cellular ceramic substrate, a honeycomb-like filter. While compact, the intricate honeycomb structure provides a surface area of 23.000 square metres. This is coated with a thin layer of platinum, palladium and rhodium metals, which act as catalysts that simulate a reaction to changes in the chemical composition of the gases. Platinum and palladium convert hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide into carbon dioxide and water vapour. Rhodium changes nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons into nitrogen and water, which are harmless.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:&#10;(汽车等的)催化式排气净化器
Translation: 催化式排气净化器可用于净化汽油驱动车辆的废气，这些废气是（环境污染）的主要威胁，在拥挤的城市街道和高速公路，烟雾降低了空气的质量标准。净化器去除一氧化碳，以及未燃烧的碳氢化合物和氮氧化物。这些化合物会在各种环境下以各种方式损害人体健康。该净化器安装于汽车的尾部靠近发动机。废气通过蜂窝陶瓷载体和蜂巢状滤波器。虽然设计紧密，但复杂的蜂窝状结构提供了23平方米的表面积。表面涂有铂、钯和铑金属薄层，作为催化剂来促进化学反应。铂和钯将碳转化成二氧化碳、水蒸汽碳氢化合物和一氧化碳。铑将废气改变成氮和水，这些都是无害的氮氧化物和碳氢化合物。


Code: 1213
English Term: catastrophe
Definition: A sudden, widespread disaster or calamity that greatly exceeds the resources of an area or region.&#10;(Source: HMD)
Chinese Term: 灾难
Translation: 一个突然的、广泛的灾难或大大超过一个地区或区域资源的灾祸。


Code: 1220
English Term: catch yield
Definition: The yield obtained from a given fishery; fishery catches should be strictly controlled so that the fish population can have a sufficient breeding mass and thus give a sustained yield for future generations.&#10;(Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 捕获量
Translation: 一个给定的渔业获得的产量。渔业的捕获应被严格控制来保证鱼类能够有一个充足的繁殖数量，从而保证后代有一个持续的产量。



Code: 12231
English Term: catchment
Definition: A structure in which water is collected.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 集水处
Translation: 一种收集水的结构。



Code: 1215
English Term: catchment area
Definition: 1) An area from which surface runoff is carried away by a single drainage system.&#10; 2) The area of land bounded by watersheds draining into a river, basin or reservoir.&#10;(Source: LANDY /  CED)
Chinese Term: 集水区；下游区
Translation: 1)一个区域，从那里通过一条排水系统来排放地面径流。&#10;2)通过分水线来界定的地域，排放到河里、内港或水库。



Code: 1221
English Term: category of endangered species
Definition: Those of the planet's flora and fauna which are threatened with extinction. Hunting and poaching to fuel the trade in ivory, horn, skins, fur and feathers have long been a threat to already endangered species. Pollution, agricultural expansion, loss of wetlands, deforestation and other erosion of habitats have been added to the hazards. Human activity was responsible for most of the animals and plants known to have been lost in the past two centuries.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 濒危物种
Translation: 地球上那些濒临灭绝的的植物和动物。为了进行象牙、牛角、皮革、毛和羽毛贸易的打猎和偷猎，一直威胁已经濒临灭绝的物种。污染、农业扩张、湿地的减少、森林砍伐和其它栖息地的侵蚀，都增加了危险性。在过去两个世纪中，大多数动物和植物的灭绝是人类活动引起的。






Code: 1224
English Term: cation
Definition: A positively charged atom or group of atoms, or a radical which moves to the negative pole (cathode) during electrolysis.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 阳离子
Translation: 带正电荷的原子或者一组原子，或者在电解时趋向负极(到阴极)的原子团。



Code: 1225
English Term: cattle
Definition: Domesticated bovine animals, including cows, steers and bulls, raised and bred on a ranch or farm.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 牛
Translation: 驯养的牛属动物，包括母牛、阉公牛、公牛，在牧场或农场中饲养和培育。


Code: 1229
English Term: cause for concern principle
Definition: Principle connected with the precautionary principle: it means that, if there are strong reasons for expecting serious or irreversible damage to the environment following a given project, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation. Critics of this approach are concerned about large commitments of resources to deal with vaguely defined problems.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 预防原则
Translation: 与预防原则相联系的原则：这意味着，如果有充足的理由来预见到在某个工程之后对环境有严重的或不可逆的损害，缺乏充分的科学依据肯定不应作为推迟防止环境退化的有效措施的理由。对这种方法的批评主要在于投入了大量的资源来处理未确定的问题。


Code: 7094
English Term: cause-effect relation
Definition: The relating of causes to the effects that they produce.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 因果关系
Translation: 原因和结果之间的关系。


Code: 1231
English Term: cave
Definition: 1) An underground hollow with access from the ground surface or from the sea, often found in limestone areas and on rocky coastlines.&#10; 2) A natural cavity, chamber or recess which leads beneath the surface of the earth, generally in a horizontal or obliquely inclined direction. It may be in the form of a passage or a gallery, its shape depending in part on the joint pattern or structure of the rock and partly on the type of process involved in its excavation. Thus, caves worn by subterranean rivers may be different in character from, and of considerably greater extent than, a sea-cave eroded by marine waves.&#10; 3) A natural underground open space, generally with a connection to the surface and large enough for a person to enter. The most common type of cave is formed in a limestone by dissolution.&#10;(Source: CED /  WHIT /  BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 洞穴,山洞
Translation: 1)一个可以从地面或从海里进入地下的空洞，通常在石灰石地区和多岩石的海岸线上可以找到。&#10;2)一个通向地表下方的自然的腔体、腔室或凹室，通常在水平的或倾斜的方向。它的形式可能是一条通路或一条过道。它的形状部分取决于岩石的连接形式或结构，部分取决于挖掘过程的方法。因此，与海洋风浪侵蚀的岩洞相比，地下河流形成的洞穴更加可能有不同的形态。&#10;3)自然的地下空地，通常和地表有连接允许一个人进入。最普遍的岩洞的类型是石灰石溶解形成的岩洞。


Code: 13040
English Term: CD-ROM
Definition: A compact disc on which a large amount of digitalised read-only data can be stored.
Chinese Term: 只读光盘
Translation: 一种可以存储大量只读数字数据的光盘。


Code: 14890
English Term: CD-ROM search service
Definition: The provision of special aid by library staff trained to query bibliographic or other information contained on an electronic storage medium, usually to meet the research needs of the library's clients.&#10;(Source: RHW /  LFS)
Chinese Term: 光盘只读存储查询服务
Translation: 由负责查询电子存储介质中存储的编目或其它信息的图书馆职员提供的特别服务，通常是为了满足图书馆的用户的查询需求。


Code: 1239
English Term: cell (biology)
Definition: The microscopic functional and structural unit of all living organisms, consisting of a nucleus, cytoplasm, and a limiting membrane.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 细胞（生物）
Translation: 所有活生物的微小的功能和结构的单位，由细胞核、细胞质和细胞膜组成。


Code: 1242
English Term: cell (energy)
Definition: The basic building block of a battery. It is an electrochemical device consisting of an anode and a cathode in a common electrolyte kept apart with a separator. This assembly may be used in its own container as a single cell battery or be combined and interconnected with other cells in a container to form a multicelled battery.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 电池
Translation: 电池组的基本结构。它是由电解质隔离的阳极和阴极组成电化学装置。这个装置可能被用作一个单一的电池，或者在一个容器内和其它电池相互连接组成电池组。


Code: 1244
English Term: cellulose
Definition: The main polysaccharide in living plants, forming the skeletal structure of the plant cell wall; a polymer of beta-D-glucose linked together with the elimination of water to form chains of 2000-4000 units.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 纤维素
Translation: 活的植物中主要的多醣，形成植物细胞壁的支撑结构; 一种聚合物，由β-D-葡萄糖通过脱水形成，含有2000-4000个单元的链。


Code: 1245
English Term: cellulose industry
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 纤维素工业
Translation: 无需定义


Code: 1247
English Term: cement
Definition: A dry powder made from silica, alumina, lime, iron oxide, and magnesia which hardens when mixed with water; used as an ingredient in concrete.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水泥
Translation: 一种干燥的粉末，从硅石、氧化铝、石灰、铁矿石、氧化镁制得，当和水混合时会变硬，用作混凝土的组成部分。


Code: 1248
English Term: cement industry
Definition: Industry for the production of cement. The emissions of most relevance from this sector are atmospheric: dust, carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides are the most important. Cement is essential for the construction sector, either directly or mixed with sand or gravel to form concrete.&#10;(Source: DOBRIS)
Chinese Term: 水泥工业
Translation: 生产水泥的工业。该行业的排放物与大气最相关，主要包括：灰尘、二氧化碳、氮的氧化物。对建设行业来说水泥是必不可少的，无论是直接使用还是与沙子或石头混合形成混凝土。


Code: 1249
English Term: cement manufacture
Definition: Cement is produced by heating a mixture of clay or shale plus chalk or lime in a rotary kiln up to 250 m long per 8 m diameter rotating at 1 rpm. The process can be wet, semi-dry or dry and the fuel can be pulverized coal, oil or gas. As the coal ash is similar in composition to the clay or shale, it can stay in the cement clinker. As one of the kiln operator's major costs is fuel and even a modest sized kiln can consume 8-10 tons of coal per hour, the cement kiln could, therefore, solve a disposal problem and also benefit the cement manufacturer by reducing fuel costs.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 水泥制造
Translation: 水泥是在一个长度可达250米直径8米转速1rpm的旋转式窑中，通过加热粘土或者页岩加上白垩或石灰制造的。这个过程可以湿或干的或者半干的，燃料可以是粉状的煤、石油或天然气。由于煤炭烟灰与粘土和页岩的组成相似，它可以混在水泥的熔渣中。由于窑的一个主要花费是燃料，甚至一个中等大小的窑每小时就可以消耗8-10吨煤，水泥窑能够因此解决处理问题，同样也因为减少了燃料花费而给水泥制造带来好处。


Code: 11125
English Term: census survey
Definition: An official periodic count of a population including such information as sex, age, occupation, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 人口调查
Translation: 官方对人口的定期计数，包括的信息有性别、年龄、职业等。


Code: 1255
English Term: Central Africa
Definition: A geographic region of the African continent close to the equator that includes Cameroon, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, the Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo.&#10;(Source: OMD / CIA)
Chinese Term: 非洲中部
Translation: 非洲大陆的一块地理区域，临近赤道，包括喀麦隆、赤道几内亚和加蓬、中非和民主的共和国。


Code: 1256
English Term: Central America
Definition: A narrow continental region of the Western hemisphere, existing as a bridge between North and South America, often considered to be the southern portion of North America, and including countries such as Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 中美洲
Translation: 在西半球的一条狭窄的大陆地区，作为连接北美洲和南美洲的桥梁，经常被视为北美洲的南部，包括危地马拉、伯利兹、萨尔瓦多、洪都拉斯、尼加拉瓜、哥斯达黎加和巴拿马等国家。

Code: 1257
English Term: Central Asia
Definition: A geographic region of the Asian continent between the Caspian Sea on the west and China on the east, extending northward into the central region of Russia and southward to the northern borders of Iran and Afghanistan, and comprised of independent former republics of the Soviet Union, including Kazakstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.&#10;(Source: INP / CIA)
Chinese Term: [地名] [亚细亚洲] 中亚
Translation: 一地理区域的亚洲大陆间西接里海，东临中国，向北延伸到俄罗斯的中部地区，向南延伸到伊朗和阿富汗的北部边界，由独立的前苏联国家包括哈萨克斯坦，乌兹别克斯坦、吉尔吉斯斯坦、塔吉克斯坦、土库曼斯坦组成。




Code: 1259
English Term: central government
Definition: A system in which a governing or administrative body has a certain degree of power or authority to prevail in the management of local, national and international matters.&#10;(Source: WAP / BLD)
Chinese Term: 中央政府
Translation: 一个系统，在这个系统中管理或行政的机构有一定程度的权力或权威来管理地方、国家和国际事务。




Code: 10210
English Term: central park area
Definition: The core area of a park or of a reserve where there can be no interference with the natural ecosystem.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 中央公园地区
Translation: 公园或保护区的核心地区，在那里不能干预自然生态系统。


Code: 1261
English Term: centralisation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 集中，中央集权，中央集权化
Translation:



Code: 1262
English Term: centrifugation
Definition: Separation of particles from a suspension in a centrifuge: balanced tubes containing the suspension are attached to the opposite ends of arms rotating rapidly about a central point; the suspended particles are forced outwards, and collect at the bottoms of the tubes.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 离心法
Translation: 在离心机中从悬浮液中分离粒子：将装有悬浮液的平衡管连接到绕着中心点快速旋转的臂的相对的终端；悬浮的粒子被强行向外运动，并且收集到试管的底部。


Code: 1265
English Term: cephalopod
Definition: Exclusively marine animals constituting the most advanced class of the Mollusca, including squid, octopuses, and Nautilus.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 头足纲动物(如章鱼)
Translation: 某些海洋动物，组成最高级的软体动物类，包括鱿鱼、章鱼、鹦鹉螺。



Code: 1266
English Term: ceramics
Definition: The art and techniques of producing articles of clay, porcelain, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 陶瓷工艺
Translation: 生产粘土、瓷器制品的艺术和技术



Code: 1267
English Term: ceramics industry
Definition: Manufacturing plant producing ceramic items.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 制陶工业
Translation: 生产厂家生产陶瓷品。



Code: 11612
English Term: certification
Definition: The formal assertion in writing of some fact.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 认证
Translation: 书写事实的正式认定。


Code: 1275
English Term: cetacean
Definition: Aquatic mammals, including the whales, dolphins, and porpoises.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鲸目动物
Translation: 水栖哺乳动物，包括鲸、海豚和鼠海豚。





Code: 1384
English Term: CFC and halons prohibition
Definition: An interdiction on the manufacture or use of products that discharge chlorofluorocarbons and bromine-containing compounds into the atmosphere, thereby contributing to the depletion of the ozone layer.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: CFC和卤代烷禁令
Translation:



Code: 1279
English Term: Chagas' disease
Definition: A form of trypanosomiasis found in South America, caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi, characterized by fever and often inflammation of the hearth muscle.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 南美洲锥虫病；恰加斯氏病
Translation: 一种在南美洲发现的由于原生动物克氏锥虫引发的锥虫病。这种锥虫病的特征是高烧，通常还有心肌炎。



Code: 1280
English Term: chain management
Definition: The administration, organization and planning for the flow of materials or merchandise through various stages of production and distribution, involving a network of vendors, suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers and other trading partners.&#10;(Source: MSE)
Chinese Term: 连锁管理
Translation: 管理、组织和计划材料或者商品在生产和分配这些不同阶段的流动，涉及到一个由卖方、供应商、制造商、分销商、零售商和其它贸易伙伴组成的网络。



Code: 11207
English Term: chalk
Definition: A soft, pure, earthy, fine-textured, usually white to light gray or buff limestone of marine origin, consisting almost wholly (90-99%) of calcite, formed mainly by shallow-water accumulation of calcareous tests of floating microorganisms (chiefly foraminifers) and of comminuted remains of calcareous algae (such as cocoliths and rhabdoliths), set in a structureless matrix of very finely crystalline calcite. The rock is porous, somewhat friable, and only slightly coherent. It may include the remains of bottom-dwelling forms (e.g. ammonites, echinoderms, and pelecypods), and nodules of chert and pyrite. The best known and most widespread chalks are of Cretaceous age, such as those exposed in cliffs on both sides of the English Channel.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 白垩
Translation: 一种柔软、纯净、像土壤一样、细质地的、通常从白色到浅灰色或海相成因的黄色的石灰石，组成几乎全部（90-99%）是方解石，主要形成过程是通过在浅水中的碳酸钙的积累，浮游微生物（主要是有孔虫）和石灰藻的粉碎的遗体（如小円石和棒石）的合成，形成很细的晶状方解石的无定形模型。石块是疏松的，有些易碎的，只是略微一致。它可能包括的底栖的形式(例如，菊石类、棘皮动物、双壳类)的遗体，以及燧石和黄铁矿的节结。最著名的和最广泛的白垩产生于白垩纪，例如那些在英吉利海峡的悬崖离岸边发现的白垩。



Code: 1286
English Term: change in value
Definition:
Chinese Term: 数量变化;价值变化
Translation:



Code: 1288
English Term: channelling
Definition: Any system of distribution canals or conduits for water, gas, electricity, or steam.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 开渠
Translation: 任何分配水、气、电或蒸汽的渠道或者管道的系统。




Code: 1290
English Term: charcoal
Definition: A porous solid product containing 85-98% carbon and produced by heating carbonaceous materials such as cellulose, wood or peat at 500-600 C° in the absence of air.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 木炭
Translation: 一种多孔的固体含有85-98%的碳，在空气中用500-600 C°高温加热含碳物质例如纤维素、木头或煤而产生。


Code: 13556
English Term: chart (act)
Definition: A formal written record of transactions, proceedings, etc., as of a society, committee, or legislative body.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 图表（法令）
Translation: 一种正式书面记录，记录社会、委员会或立法机构的交易和程序等。





Code: 14663
English Term: chart (nautical)
Definition: A map for navigation that delineates a portion of the sea, indicating the outline of the coasts and the position of rocks, sandbanks and other parts of a sea.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 航海图
Translation: 航海用的地图，勾画海的一部分，标示沿海轮廓和岩石，沙丘和其它地方的位置。



Code: 1296
English Term: chelicerate
Definition: A subphylum of the phylum Artrophoda; chelicerae are characteristically modified as pincers.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 有螯角[肢]的动物
Translation: Artrophoda亚门，螯角的特点就是像钳子。





Code: 1327
English Term: chemical
Definition: Any substance used in or resulting from a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 化学药品
Translation: 原子或分子参与且发生变化的反应的反应物或生成物。



Code: 84
English Term: chemical addition
Definition: Chemical reaction in which one or more of the double bonds or triple bonds in an unsaturated compound is converted to a single bond by the addition of other atoms or groups.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 化学添加
Translation: 在一种不饱和化合物的一个或多个双键或三键在添加其它原子或分子的条件下被转化成单键的化学反应。




Code: 1298
English Term: chemical analysis
Definition: The complex of operations aiming to determine the kinds of constituents of a given substance.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 化学分析
Translation: 为了确定某种物质的各种成分的复杂操作。



Code: 1299
English Term: chemical composition
Definition: The nature and proportions of the elements comprising a chemical compound.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 化学成分
Translation: 化合物的元素组成的性质和比例。





Code: 11676
English Term: chemical contamination
Definition: The addition or presence of chemicals to, or in, another substance to such a degree as to render it unfit for its intended purpose. Also refers to the result(s) of such an addition or presence.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 化学污染
Translation: 化学物质的添加或参与到另一种物质，使它达到预期的目的。也指这种添加或参加反应的生成物。



Code: 11795
English Term: chemical corrosivity
Definition: The tendency of a metal to wear away another by chemical attack.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学腐蚀
Translation: 金属在化学侵蚀下生成其它物质的倾向。




Code: 1303
English Term: chemical decontamination
Definition: Removal of chemical substances from a building, a watercourse, a person's clothes, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 化学去污
Translation: 从建筑、水道、衣服等清除某些化学物质。


Code: 11781
English Term: chemical degradation
Definition: The act or process of simplifying or breaking down a molecule into smaller parts, either naturally or artificially.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 化学降解
Translation: 自然地或人为地将一个分子分解成小部分的行为或过程。




Code: 2643
English Term: chemical element
Definition: A substance made up of atoms with the same atomic number; common examples are hydrogen, gold, and iron.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学元素
Translation: 只有一种原子组成的物质。常见的例子是氢、金和铁。


Code: 1305
English Term: chemical engineering
Definition: The branch of engineering concerned with industrial manufacture of chemical products. It is a discipline in which the principles of mathematical, physical and natural sciences are used to solve problems in applied chemistry. Chemical engineers design, develop, and optimise processes and plants, operate them, manage personnel and capital, and conduct research necessary for new developments. Through their efforts, new petroleum products, plastics, agricultural chemicals, house-hold products, pharmaceuticals, electronic and advanced materials, photographic materials, chemical and biological compounds, various food and other products evolve.&#10;(Source: USTa)
Chinese Term: 化学工程
Translation: 与化学制品工业生产相关工程的分支。它是在化学中应用数学、物理和自然科学来解决问题的一门学科。化学工程师设计、开发以及优化加工和工厂、操作它们、管理人事和资本，引导新产品开发的必要调查。在他们的努力下，新的石油产品、塑料、农用化学品、日常用品、药物、电子高科技材料、摄影材料、生化合成物、各种各样的食物以及其它产品都出现了。




Code: 1306
English Term: chemical fallout
Definition: The sedimentation of chemical substances accumulated in the atmosphere as a result of industrial emissions.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 化学辐射尘
Translation: 工业排放造成的大气中积累的化学物质的积淀。


Code: 1307
English Term: chemical fertiliser
Definition: Fertilizer manufactured from chemicals; excessive use of them can cause pollution, when all the chemicals are not taken up by the plants and the excess is leached out of the soil into rivers and may cause algal bloom.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 化学肥料
Translation: 用化学物质制造的肥料。过度使用它们会造成污染。当植物没有吸收所有的化学物质时，剩余的从土壤中过滤进入到河里可能导致藻类过量繁殖。



Code: 1330
English Term: chemical in the environment
Definition: The presence in the environment of any solid, liquid or gaseous material discharged from a process and that may pose substantial hazard to human health and the environment.
Chinese Term: 环境中的化学物质
Translation: 由一个化学过程释放的任何固体、液体或者气体在环境中的存在，这些物质可能对人体健康和环境有害。


Code: 1310
English Term: chemical industry
Definition: Industry related with the production of chemical compounds. The chemical processing industry has a variety of special pollution problems due to the vast number of products manufactured. The treatment processes combine processing, concentration, separation, extraction, by-product recovery, destruction, and reduction in concentration. The wastes may originate from solvent extraction, acid and caustic wastes, overflows, spills, mechanical loss, etc.&#10;(Source: PZ)
Chinese Term: 化学工业
Translation: 与化合物制造相关的工业。由于制造了大量的产品，化学加工工业造成了一种特殊的污染问题。


Code: 1311
English Term: chemical installation
Definition: Building where chemicals are manufactured.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 化学装置
Translation: 制造化学物品的装置


Code: 10087
English Term: chemical measurement of pollution
Definition: The quantitative determination of the presence, extent or type of pollutant substances in the environment by studying the actions or reactions of known chemicals to those pollutants.&#10;(Source: APD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 化学污染测定
Translation: 通过研究已知化学物质对污染物的行为或反应，以对环境中污染物的存在、程度或类型的定量测量。


Code: 1312
English Term: chemical oceanography
Definition:
Chinese Term: 化学海洋学
Translation:



Code: 1536
English Term: chemical oxygen demand
Definition: The quantity of oxygen used in biological and non-biological oxidation of materials in water; a measure of water quality.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 化学需氧量
Translation: 水中生物或非生物氧化作用中消耗氧的量，是对水体质量的一种评估。


Code: 1314
English Term: chemical pest control
Definition: Control of plants and animals classified as pests by means of chemical compounds.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 化学防治(病虫害)
Translation: 通过使用化合物对被视为害虫的植物或动物的控制。


Code: 1316
English Term: chemical plant
Definition: Plants where basic raw materials are chemically converted into a variety of products.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学工厂
Translation: 通过化学方法将基础原料转化成一系列产品的工厂。


Code: 1317
English Term: chemical policy
Definition:
Chinese Term: 化学用的政策
Translation:



Code: 1318
English Term: chemical pollutant
Definition:
Chinese Term: 化学污染物
Translation:



Code: 1319
English Term: chemical pollution
Definition: Pollution caused by substances of chemical nature, including chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls, metals as mercury, lead, cadmium, arsenic, etc.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 化学污染
Translation: 化学物质引起的污染，包括氯代烃杀虫剂、多氯联苯、金属如水银、铅、镉、砷等。



Code: 1320
English Term: chemical process
Definition: The particular method of manufacturing or making a chemical usually involving a number of steps or operations.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 化学加工
Translation: 制造化学物的特定方法，通常涉及若干步骤。



Code: 11813
English Term: chemical product
Definition: A substance characterized by definite molecular composition.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学制品
Translation: 以确定的分子组成为特征的物质。



Code: 1322
English Term: chemical property
Definition: Properties of a substance depending on the arrangement of the atoms in the molecule, e.g. bio-availability, degradability, persistence, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 化学性质
Translation: 基于原子在分子中排列的一种物质属性，例如生物可利用性、可降解性、持续性等。


Code: 1324
English Term: chemical reaction
Definition: A change in which a substance is transformed into one or more new substances.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学反应
Translation: 一种物质转变成一个或多个新的物质的变化。




Code: 7030
English Term: chemical reduction
Definition: Chemical reaction in which an element gains an electron.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学还原
Translation: 有元素获得电子的化学反应。



Code: 1326
English Term: chemical risk
Definition: Probability of harm to human health, property or the environment posed by contact with any substance of a defined molecular composition.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 化学危险
Translation: 接触某些物质或一种给定的分子组成对人体健康或者环境的危害的可能性。


Code: 1333
English Term: chemical structure
Definition: The arrangement of atoms in a molecule of a chemical compound.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 化学结构
Translation: 化学物质分子的原子排布。


Code: 1336
English Term: chemical treatment
Definition: Processes that alter the chemical structure of the constituents of the waste to produce either an innocuous or a less hazardous material. Chemical processes are attractive because they produce minimal air emissions, they can often be carried out on the site of the waste generator, and some processes can be designed and constructed as mobile units.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 化学(药品)处理
Translation: 改变废物的成分的化学结构的处理过程，用来生产无害的或者较低危害的物质。化学处理过程很越来越被重视，因为它们产生最极少的空气排放，它们通常在废物产生器的地方进行，一些处理过程能够设计和制造成移动的装置。


Code: 1337
English Term: chemical treatment of waste
Definition:
Chinese Term: 废物的化学处理
Translation:



Code: 1341
English Term: chemical waste
Definition: Any by-product of a chemical process, including manufacturing processes. Often this by-product is considered a toxic or polluting substance.&#10;(Source: APD / ERG)
Chinese Term: 化学废料
Translation: 化学过程中的任何副产品，包括制造流程。通常这个副产品被视为有毒物或者污染物。



Code: 1343
English Term: chemical weapon
Definition: Chemical agents of warfare include all gaseous, liquid or solid chemical substances which might be employed because of their direct toxic effects on man and animals. Chemical weapons also include the chemical's precursors, the munitions and devices designed to deliver them, and any equipment specifically designed for their use in warfare. Nerve agents (chemicals of the same family as organophosphorous insecticides) are the most lethal of the classical chemical warfare agents, killing by poisoning the nervous system and disrupting bodily functions. Other chemical weapons include blister agents, vesicants, choking agents, etc.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 化学武器
Translation: 用于战争的化学物质，包括所有因为对人类或动物有直接毒性而可以被使用的气体、液体或固体物质。化学武器还包括化学的先质、军火、运输它们的装置，以及特别为战争设计的装备。神经作用剂（一类化学物质，如有机含磷杀虫剂）是最致命的经典的化学战争制剂，通过毒害神经系统和扰乱身体功能而致死。另一些化学武器包括糜烂性毒剂、发泡剂、窒息性毒剂等。



Code: 1328
English Term: chemicals act
Definition:
Chinese Term: 化学的行为
Translation:



Code: 1347
English Term: chemisorption
Definition: The process of chemical adsorption.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学吸收作用
Translation: 化学的吸收的过程。


Code: 1348
English Term: chemistry
Definition: The scientific study of the properties, composition, and structure of matter, the changes in structure and composition of matter, and accompanying energy changes.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 化学
Translation: 一种科学研究，研究物质的属性、组成和结构，伴随着着能量变化的物质结构和组成的变化。


Code: 10605
English Term: chestnut
Definition: Any north temperate fagaceous tree of the genus Castanea, such as Castanea sativa, which produce flowers in long catkins and nuts in a prickly bur.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 栗子
Translation: 北温带栗属类山毛榉科的树，如欧洲栗木，其花为长花序，坚果多刺。


Code: 1350
English Term: child
Definition: A person below the age of puberty.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 儿童
Translation: 未到青春期的人。


Code: 1355
English Term: chimney
Definition: A vertical structure of brick, masonry, or steel that carries smoke or steam away from a fire, engine, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 烟囱
Translation: 用砖块、砖石或钢铁建造的垂直结构，从火、引擎等排放烟或蒸汽。




Code: 1356
English Term: chimney height
Definition: The appropriate height for chimneys serving industrial combustion plants in order to avoid unacceptable pollution.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 烟囱高度
Translation: 工业燃烧工厂中烟囱的合适高度，为了避免不能接受的污染。



Code: 1362
English Term: chiropteran
Definition: Order of placental mammals comprising the bats having the front limbs modified as wings.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 翼手目动物
Translation: 有胎盘的哺乳动物的目，包括四肢进化成翅膀的蝙蝠。



Code: 1366
English Term: chloride
Definition: A compound which is derived from hydrochloric acid and contains the chlorine atom in the -1 oxidation state.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 氯化物
Translation: 一种由盐酸得到的化合物，包含-1价的氯原子。


Code: 1368
English Term: chlorinated hydrocarbon
Definition: A class of persistent, broad-spectrum insecticides that linger in the environment and accumulate in the food chain. Among them are DDT, aldrin, dieldrin, heptachlor, chlordane, lindane, endrin, mirex, hexachloride, and toxaphene. In insects and other animals these compounds act primarily on the central nervous system. They also become concentrated in the fats of organisms and thus tend to produce fatty infiltration of the heart and fatty degeneration of the liver in vertebrates. In fishes they have the effect of preventing oxygen uptake, causing suffocation. They are also known to slow the rate of photosynthesis in plants. Their danger to the ecosystem resides in their rate stability and the fact that they are broad-spectrum poisons which are very mobile because of their propensity to stick to dust particles and evaporate with water into the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO /  PORT)
Chinese Term: 氯代烃类
Translation: 在环境中滞留、在食物链中积累的持久的种类和用途广泛的杀虫剂。包括DDT、艾氏剂、狄氏剂、七氯、氯丹、异狄氏剂、灭蚁灵、六氯化合物和八氯莰烯。这些化合物主要作用在昆虫和其他动物的中枢神经系统。它们也会作用于有机体的脂肪，并因此在脊椎动物体内产生脂肪浸润心脏和脂肪肝。对于鱼类，它们会抑制氧气的吸收，从而造成窒息。它们也减缓植物的光合作用。氯代烃类给生态系统带来的危害，在于它们的快慢稳定性，以及这样一个事实：它们是普遍的有毒物，由于其可以吸附到灰尘上，随着水的蒸发排入大气。





Code: 1371
English Term: chlorination
Definition: The application of chlorine to water, sewage or industrial wastes for disinfection or other biological or chemical purposes.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 氯化
Translation: 将氯气通入水、污水或工业废水中的应用，用以消毒或实现其它生物的或化学的目的。


Code: 1373
English Term: chlorine
Definition: A very reactive and highly toxic green, gaseous element, belonging to the halogen family of substances. It is one of the most widespread elements, as it occurs naturally in sea-water, salt lakes and underground deposits, but usually occurs in a safe form as common salt (NaCl). Commercially it is used in large quantities by the chemical industry both as an element to produce chlorinated organic solvents, like polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and for the manufacture of polyvinyl chloride plastics, thermoplastic and hypochlorite bleaches. Chlorine was the basis for the organochlorine pesticides, like DDT and other agricultural chemicals that have killed wildlife. The reactivity of chlorine has proved disastrous for the ozone layer and has been the cause of the creation of the ozone hole, which was first detected in the Southern Hemisphere over Antarctica and then over the Northern Hemisphere.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 氯
Translation: 一种很活泼、有毒、绿色的气体元素，属于卤族。是最普遍的元素，以自然形态在海水、盐湖水和地下矿藏中存在，但是它通常以一种稳定形态存在例如普通的盐（NaCl）。商业上，它被用大量用于化学工业，即作为一种元素来生产绿色的有机溶剂，如多氯化联(二)苯(略作PCB)，也用于聚氯乙烯塑料、热塑性塑料、次氯酸盐漂白剂的生产。氯是有机氯农药的基本元素，例如DDT和其他可以杀死野生生物的农业化学药品。活性氯已证明可对臭氧层造成灾难，已经成为臭氧空洞的起因。臭氧空洞首次在南半球的南极上空出现，随后在北极上空也出现了臭氧空洞。




Code: 1378
English Term: chloroethylene
Definition: A flammable, explosive gas with an ethereal aroma; soluble in alcohol and ether, slightly soluble in water; boils at -14° C; an important monomer for polyvinyl chloride and its copolymers; used in organic synthesis and in adhesives.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 氯乙烯
Translation: 一个可燃气体，具有一种淡淡的香气；可溶于酒精，微溶于水；沸点是-14°C；是聚氯乙烯和氯乙烯共聚物的单体；用于有机(物)合成和黏合剂。




Code: 1381
English Term: chlorofluorocarbon
Definition: Gases formed of chlorine, fluorine, and carbon whose molecules normally do not react with other substances; they are therefore used as spray can propellants because they do not alter the material being sprayed.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 含氯氟烃
Translation: 由氯、氟、碳组成的气体，其分子一般不与其它物质发生反应。它们以前被用作推进喷雾因为作为喷雾的时候它们本身并不发生改变。



Code: 1389
English Term: chlorophenol
Definition: Major group of chlorinated hydrocarbons, pesticides and biocides which account for a very high percentage of the non-agricultural pesticide use, such as anti-rotting agents in non-woollen textiles and wood preservatives. The chlorophenols act as biocides by inhibiting the respiration and energy-conversion processes of the microorganisms. They are toxic to man above 40 parts per million, to fish above 1 ppm, whilst concentrations as low as one part per thousand million can taint water.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 氯酚
Translation: 氯化烃类、杀虫剂和生物杀灭剂的大群，在非农用除害剂的使用中占很高的百分率，例如非毛织品的防腐剂和木材防腐剂。氯酚像生物杀灭剂一样，通过抑制微生物的呼吸和能量转化过程。氯酚含量超过百万分之四十就对人体有毒，对鱼类是超过百万分之一就有毒，浓度低至十亿分之一也对水有污染。





Code: 1391
English Term: chlorophyll
Definition: A green pigment, present in algae and higher plants, that absorbs light energy and thus plays a vital role in photosynthesis. Except in Cyanophyta (blue-green algae), chlorophyll is confined to chloroplasts. There are several types of chlorophyll, but all contain magnesium and iron. Some plants (e.g., brown algae, red algae, copper beech trees) contain additional pigments that masks the green of their chlorophyll.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 叶绿素
Translation: 一种绿色色素、存在于海藻和高等植物中，吸收光能因此在光合作用中起着重要作用。除了蓝藻门（蓝绿色藻类），叶绿素限于叶绿体中。叶绿素有几种类型，但是所有叶绿素都包含镁和铁元素。一些植物（例如，褐色海藻、红色海藻、铜山毛榉树）包含附加的色素，这些附加的色素掩盖了绿色素的绿色。



Code: 1393
English Term: chlorosis
Definition: A disease condition of green plants seen as yellowing of green parts of the plants.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 萎黄病
Translation: 一种病使得植物的绿色部分看起来呈黄色。


Code: 1798
English Term: chordate
Definition: The highest phylum in the animal kingdom, characterized by a notochord, nerve cord, and gill slits; includes the urochordate, lancelets and vertebrates.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 脊索动物
Translation: 动物王国中最高级的门，特征是有脊索、神经索和鳃裂，包括尾索动物、文昌鱼和脊椎动物。


Code: 10644
English Term: chorology
Definition: The study of the causal relations between geographical phenomena occurring within a particular region.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 分布学
Translation: 对于在某一个特定的地域内地理现象之间因果关系的研究。


Code: 1399
English Term: chromatographic analysis
Definition: The analysis of chemical substances that are poured into a vertical glass tube containing an adsorbent where the various components of the substance move through the adsorbent at different rates of speed according to their degree of attraction to it, thereby producing bands of color at different levels of the adsorption column.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 色谱[层]分析
Translation: 对化学物质的分析，该化学物质被倒到一个垂直的玻璃试管中，玻璃试管中含有吸附剂，根据吸附剂对物质的各种组成成分的吸附能力，组成成分以不同的速率通过吸附剂，因此吸附柱上产生不同层次的颜色带。


Code: 1400
English Term: chromatography
Definition: A method of separating and analyzing mixtures of chemical substances by selective adsorption in a column of powder or on a strip of paper.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 色谱法
Translation: 一个分离和分析化学物质的混合物质的方法，通过选择性的吸附(作用)在一栏的粉末或在一张纸条上。



Code: 1401
English Term: chromium
Definition: A hard grey metallic element that takes a high polish, occurring principally in chromite: used in steel alloys and electroplating to increase hardness and corrosion-resistance.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 铬
Translation: 一种坚硬的光亮的灰色金属元素，主要在铬铁矿中分布；用于钢合金和电镀来增加坚硬度以及抗腐蚀性。



Code: 1406
English Term: chrysophyta
Definition: The golden-brown and orange-yellow algae; a diverse group of microscopically small algae which inhabit fresh and salt water, many being planktonic. They contain carotenoid pigments and may be unicellular, colonial, filamentous or amoeboid.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 金藻门
Translation: 桔黄色和金褐色的海藻。显微镜下观测到的微小海藻的一个不同的种群，这种海藻生活在淡水和盐水中，很多都是浮游生物。它们包含类胡萝卜素，可能是单细胞、殖民的、细丝状的或变形虫样的。



Code: 1410
English Term: church
Definition: A building for religious activities.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 教堂
Translation: 供宗教活动的建筑。




Code: 13000
English Term: cinematographic film
Definition: Any motion picture of a story, drama, episode or event, often considered as an art form or used as a medium for entertainment.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 电影胶片
Translation: 故事、戏剧、事件或事件的任何电影，通常被视为一种艺术形式或者被作为一种娱乐的媒体。



Code: 11490
English Term: circular mail
Definition: A memorandum, letter or notice in either paper or electronic format distributed widely throughout an organization or to a general list of interested parties.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 通知信件
Translation: 在一个机构中广泛使用的纸质或电子格式的备忘录、函或者通知，或者相关方的常规的列表。





Code: 10991
English Term: citizen
Definition: A native or naturalized member of a state or nation who owes allegiance, bears responsibilities and obtains rights, including protection, from the government.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 公民
Translation: 本国人、移入本国国籍的人，他们忠诚于国家、负有法律责任、获得权利，包括受到来自政府的保护。


Code: 1419
English Term: citizen awareness
Definition: State of citizens of being aware of their civic obligations.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 公民意识
Translation: 公民意识到他们公民义务的形态。




Code: 14974
English Term: citizen initiative
Definition:
Chinese Term: 公民动议中心
Translation:



Code: 11479
English Term: citizen rights
Definition: Rights recognized and protected by law, pertaining to the members of a state.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 公民权利
Translation: 被法律认可和保护的权力，适用于国家的所有公民。




Code: 1421
English Term: city
Definition: Term used generically today to denote any urban form but applied particularly to large urban settlements. There are, however, no agreed definitions to separate a city from the large metropolis or the smaller town.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 城市
Translation: 用来表示任何城市形式，特别是应用于大城市而使用的术语。然而，并没有一致的定义来区分大城市和小城市。





Code: 1431
English Term: civil air traffic
Definition: Air traffic pertaining to or serving the general public, as distinguished from military air traffic.
Chinese Term: 民用航空交通
Translation: 适用于或者服务于大众的航空交通，和军用航空交通有区别。


Code: 1434
English Term: civil engineering
Definition: The planning, design, construction, and maintenance of fixed structures and ground facilities for industry, transportation, use and control of water or occupancy.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 土木工程
Translation: 对那些用于工业、交通、使用和控制水或占用水的固定结构和地面设施的规划、设计、建设以及维护。




Code: 1437
English Term: civil law
Definition: Law inspired by old Roman Law, the primary feature of which was that laws were written into a collection; codified, and not determined, as is common law, by judges. The principle of civil law is to provide all citizens with an accessible and written collection of the laws which apply to them and which judges must follow.&#10;(Source: DUHA)
Chinese Term: 民法
Translation: 基于旧的罗马法的法律，它的主要特点是写在一起收集起来，并由法官编纂成法典，但作为普通法律不由法官决定。民法的原则是为了用可读可写的法律条例来保护所有的公民，这些条例适用于公民，法官必须遵守。





Code: 12763
English Term: civil safety
Definition: Actions and measures undertaken, often at a local level, to ensure that citizens of a community are secure from harm, injury, danger or risk.&#10;(Source: RHW / OEC)
Chinese Term: 民事安全
Translation: 常在地方一级采取的，为了保证公民安全，不受侵害、伤害、危险或者风险的行动和措施。





Code: 1436
English Term: civilian protection
Definition: The organization and measures, usually under governmental or other authority depending on the country, aimed at preventing, abating or fighting major emergencies for the protection of the civilian population and property, particularly in wartime.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 平民保护
Translation: 通常在依靠国家的政府或其他当局下的组织和措施，目的是为了保护公民的人身和财产安全，防止、消除或打击重大的紧急情况，特别是在战争时期。




Code: 1445
English Term: claim for restitution
Definition: A legal remedy in which a person or party may demand or assert the right to be restored to a former or original position prior to loss, damage or injury.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 要求退回原物的债权、诉权
Translation: 一种法律补救法，一个人或一方当事人可以要求或维护恢复受到损失、损坏或损害之前的原始位置的权利。



Code: 1446
English Term: class action suits law
Definition: Legal action initiated by a single person or a few people on behalf of a group with similar claim or claims.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 集体诉讼法
Translation: 针对由一个人或一个集体的名义发起的相似权利要求而采取的法律行为。



Code: 1447
English Term: classification
Definition: An arrangement or organization of persons, items or data elements into groups by reason of common attributes, characteristics, qualities or traits.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 分类
Translation: 根据公共属性、特性、特点或特征，使人、项目或数据元素分别成组的安排或组织。



Code: 12459
English Term: classified facility
Definition: Facility that is forbidden to be disclosed outside a specified ring of secrecy for reasons of national security.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 保密机构
Translation: 为了国家安全禁止在秘密范围外暴露的机构。



Code: 10243
English Term: classified site
Definition: Site which is declared protected because of its natural, landscape, artistic or archeological features in order to guarantee its conservation, maintenance and restoration.&#10;(Source: SKENEa)
Chinese Term: 保密场所
Translation: 由于其自然、风景、艺术、考古特征，为了确保它的保留、维护和修复而被宣布被保护起来的地方。


Code: 1449
English Term: clay
Definition: A loose, earthy, extremely fine-grained, natural sediment or soft rock composed primarily of clay-size or colloidal particles and characterized by high plasticity and by a considerable content of clay mineral and subordinate amounts of finely divided quartz, decomposed feldspar, carbonates, ferruginous matter, and other impurities; it forms a plastic, moldable mass when finely ground and mixed with water, retains its shape on drying, and becomes firm, rocklike and permanently hard on heating or firing.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 黏土，泥土
Translation: 一种松软的、像泥土的、极其具有纹理的、天然的泥沙或软石。它主要由粘土粒度的或胶状的颗粒组成。其特点是高可塑性，有相当大的矿物含量，石英、分解的长石、碳酸盐、含铁的物质以及其他杂物很好地分离开。当与水很好地混合的时候，它形成一种可塑的物质，在干燥的情况下保持形状，并且再加热和火烧的情况下变得坚硬、像石头一样，永久坚硬。






Code: 8782
English Term: clean air area
Definition: Areas where significant reductions in ozone forming pollutants have been achieved through industrial initiatives to control and/or prevent pollution, through implementation of transportation improvement plans, national efforts to reduce automobile tailpipe emissions and lower the volatility (evaporation rate) of gasoline.&#10;(Source: CIHUNT)
Chinese Term: 空气洁净区
Translation: 通过控制工业的主动排放和/或防止污染，交通改善计划的实施，以及国家为了减少机动车辆废气排放量和降低汽油挥发性而做的努力而实现的污染物形成显著减少的清新空气地区。

Code: 12027
English Term: clean air car
Definition: Vehicles that function without emitting pollutants in the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 空气洁净车
Translation: 具有不向大气中排放污染物功能的车辆。



Code: 1460
English Term: clean technology
Definition: Industrial process which causes little or no pollution.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 清洁技术
Translation: 几乎不引起污染或完全无污染的工业处理。


Code: 1456
English Term: cleaning up
Definition: The process of bringing desert, marsh, sea coast or other waste or unproductive land into use or cultivation.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 清理
Translation: 使用或者培养沼泽地带、沙漠、海岸或其他废弃或贫瘠的土地的过程。



Code: 10097
English Term: cleanliness (hygiene)
Definition: The state of being clean and keeping healthy conditions.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 洁净-保健法
Translation: 保持干净和保持健康条件的状态。



Code: 13722
English Term: cleansing
Definition: The act or process of washing, laundering or removing dirt and other unwanted substances from the surface of an object, thing or place.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 净化
Translation: 从一个对象、物体或地方的表面清洗、洗涤或清除污垢或其他不需要的物质的行为或过程。



Code: 1457
English Term: cleansing department
Definition: A division, usually within municipal government, responsible for providing services that remove dirt, litter or other unsightly materials from city or town property.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 清洁部门
Translation: 一个通常隶属于市政府的部门，负责提供把灰尘、垃圾或其他难看的东西从城市或城镇中清除掉的服务。



Code: 1458
English Term: cleansing product
Definition:
Chinese Term: 洁面产品
Translation:



Code: 12435
English Term: clearing sludge
Definition:
Chinese Term: 清除污泥
Translation:



Code: 10155
English Term: cliff
Definition: A steep coastal declivity which may or may not be precipitous, the slope angle being dependent partly on the jointing, bedding and hardness of the materials from which the cliff has been formed, and partly on the erosional processes at work. Where wave attack is dominant the cliff-foot will be rapidly eroded and cliff retreat will take place, especially in unconsolidated materials such as clays, sands, etc., frequently leaving behind an abrasion platform at the foot of the cliff.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 悬崖
Translation: 一座沿海的斜坡，可能陡峭也可能不陡峭，斜坡的倾斜度部分依赖于悬崖所形成的地方的材料的接合、层理和硬度，部分依赖于侵蚀过程。在海浪侵袭显著的地方，悬崖底部将迅速侵蚀，悬崖将撤退，特别对于疏松的材料如粘土、砂石等，海浪经常在悬崖的底部留下磨损的平台。




Code: 1462
English Term: climate
Definition: The average weather condition in a region of the world. Many aspects of the Earth's geography affect the climate. Equatorial, or low, latitudes are hotter than the polar latitudes because of the angle at which the rays of sunlight arrive at the Earth's surface. The difference in temperature at the equator and at the poles has an influence on the global circulation of huge masses of air. Cool air at the poles sinks and spreads along the surface of the Earth towards the equator. Cool air forces its way under the lower density warmer air in the lower regions, pushing the lighter air up and toward the poles, where it will cool and descend.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 气候
Translation: 世界上的一个地区的平均天气情况。地球地理的很多方面都影响了气候。赤道的，或者低纬度的崎岖要逼极地地区热，由于太阳光到达地球表面的光线的角度。赤道地区和极地地区的温度的差异影响了全球气流循环。冷空气在极地地区下降，沿着地球表面向赤道流动。冷空气推动在较低的地方的密度较低的暖空气，将轻的空气向上推向两极，在那里冷却下沉。


Code: 1466
English Term: climate protection
Definition: Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken to prevent or reduce harm from pollution to natural weather conditions or patterns, including the prevailing temperature, atmospheric composition and precipitation.&#10;(Source: DOE /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 气候保护
Translation: 采取的预防行动、程序或设备，为了防止或减少污染对自然天气条件或形式的危害，包括盛行的气温、大气成分和降雨量。



Code: 1467
English Term: climate resource
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 气候资源
Translation:



Code: 1469
English Term: climate type
Definition: Weather conditions typical of areas roughly corresponding to lines of latitude.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 气候类型
Translation: 大致相对应的纬度上的地区的典型天气。



Code: 1470
English Term: climatic alteration
Definition: The slow variation of climatic characteristics over time at a given place. This may be indicated by the geological record in the long term, by changes in the landforms in the intermediate term, and by vegetation changes in the short term.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 气候变化
Translation: 某个地区在一段时间内的气候特征的缓慢变化。从长期来看，这可能是由地质记录表示；从中期来看，它可能由地貌变化表示；从短期来看，它可能由植物的变化来表示。


Code: 1471
English Term: climatic change
Definition: The long-term fluctuations in temperature, precipitation, wind, and all other aspects of the Earth's climate. External processes, such as solar-irradiance variations, variations of the Earth's orbital parameters (eccentricity, precession, and inclination), lithosphere motions, and volcanic activity, are factors in climatic variation. Internal variations of the climate system, e.g., changes in the abundance of greenhouse gases, also may produce fluctuations of sufficient magnitude and variability to explain observed climate change through the feedback processes interrelating the components of the climate system.&#10;(Source: GSFC)
Chinese Term: 气候改变
Translation: 温度、降雨量、风以及地球气候的所有其他方面的长期波动。外部过程，如太阳辐照度的差异，地球轨道参数(离心率、运动和倾斜)、岩石圈运动、火山活动的不同，都是导致气候差异的因素。气候系统的内部差异如温室气体的变化，可能引起充分的巨大和变化的波动，通过与气候系统相互关联的部分的过程反馈，来解释观测的气候变化。





Code: 1464
English Term: climatic effect
Definition: Climate has a central influence on many human needs and activities, such as agriculture, housing, human health, water resources, and energy use. The influence of climate on vegetation and soil type is so strong that the earliest climate classification schemes where often based more on these factors than on the meteorological variables. While technology can be used to mitigate the effects of unfavorable climatic conditions, climate fluctuations that result in significant departures from normal cause serious problems for modern industrialized societies as much as for primitive ones. The goals of climatology are to provide a comprehensive description of the Earth's climate, to understand its features in terms of fundamental physical principles, and to develop models of the Earth's climate that will allow the prediction of future changes that may result from natural and human causes.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 气候影响
Translation: 气候对人类的需要和活动有中心影响，例如农业、居住、人类健康、水资源和能源的使用。气候对蔬菜和土壤类型的影响那么强烈以至于最早的气候分类模式常常更多地基于这些因素而不是气象变量。虽然可以使用科技来减轻不利的气候条件的影响，但是背离正常的气候控制，引起现代工业化社会的问题和以前一样严重。气象学的目标是，提供一个对地球气候的可理解的描述，理解它在基本物理原理方面的特征，开发能够预测那些自然和人类所引起的未来变化的地球气候模型。



Code: 1473
English Term: climatic experiment
Definition: Experiments conducted to estimate future climatic conditions employing modelling of the physical processes underlying climatic change and variability; also, assessments are required of uncertain future man-made inputs such as increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide and other green-house gases.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 气候的实验
Translation: 使用对基本的气候变化和差异性的物理过程的建模，来估计未来的气候条件所做的实验。对不确定的未来人为的影响也需要进行评估，例如日益增加的大气二氧化碳的和其他温室气体。



Code: 1474
English Term: climatic factor
Definition: Physical conditions that determine the climate in a given area, e.g. latitude, altitude, ocean streams, etc.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 气候因子
Translation: 决定某一地区的气候的物理条件，例如纬度、海拔、洋流等。



Code: 1476
English Term: climatic zone
Definition: A belt of the earth's surface within which the climate is generally homogeneous in some respect; an elemental region of a simple climatic classification.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 气候带
Translation: 在地球表面的一个带状区域内气候在某些方面具有相同特征；一个简单的气候分类的基本区域。


Code: 1479
English Term: climatology
Definition: That branch of meteorology concerned with the mean physical state of the atmosphere together with its statistical variations in both space and time as reflected in the weather behaviour over a period of many years.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 气候学
Translation: 气象学的分支，关注的是大气的平均物理状态与其在空间和时间上的统计变化，以反映许多年内的天气行为。



Code: 1480
English Term: climax
Definition: A botanical term referring to the terminal community said to be achieved when a sere (a sequential development of a plant community or group of plant communities on the same site over a period of time) achieves dynamic equilibrium with its environment and in particular with its prevailing climate. Each of the world's major vegetation climaxes is equivalent to a biome. Many botanists believe that climate is the master factor in a plant environment and that even if several types of plant succession occur in an area they will all tend to converge towards a climax form of vegetation.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 顶级群落
Translation: 一个植物学术语。它指，当一个演替系列（在一段时间内，在同一个地方的一个植物群落或植物群集的一系列发展）在环境中特别是在线性气候中实现动态平衡时，终极群集就实现了。世界上每一种植物的顶级群落对于一个生物群系都是相同的。许多生物学家相信，气候是植物环境的主要因素，即使若干植物继承类型发生在它们将都趋向于形成植物的顶极群落的地区。


Code: 1481
English Term: climbing plant (wall)
Definition: A plant that lacks rigidity and grows upwards by twining, scrambling, or clinging with tendrils and suckers.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 攀援植物
Translation: 一种柔软的植物，通过缠绕、攀爬或用卷须和吸根粘贴向上长着。



Code: 1482
English Term: clinical symptom
Definition: Any objective evidence of disease or of a patient's condition founded on clinical observation.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 临床症状
Translation: 基于临床观察的疾病或者病人情况的任何客观证据。



Code: 1484
English Term: cloning
Definition: The production of genetically identical individuals from a single parent. Cloning plants usually involves plant cell culture. Cloning animals is more difficult and relays on some manipulation of their normal reproductive cycle. A clone is a group of organisms of identical genetic constitution, unless mutation occurs, produced from a single individual by asexual reproduction, parthenogenesis or apomixis.&#10;(Source: BIOTAZ)
Chinese Term: 无性繁殖
Translation: 从一个单一母本产生相同基因个体的过程。克隆植物通常涉及植物细胞培养。克隆动物更加困难的，并依赖于它们正常循环再生的某些操作。一个克隆体是具有相同基因构成的有机体的组合，除非发生突变。克隆体是从个体通过无性生殖或单性生殖得到的。







Code: 1486
English Term: closing down
Definition: The cessation, discontinuation or breaking-off of a business transaction, lease, contract or employment arrangement, usually before its anticipated or stipulated end.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 停机
Translation: 商业交易、租约、合约或就业安排的突然中止，通常在预期或规定之前结束。



Code: 1487
English Term: closing down of firm
Definition: The termination or shutdown, temporary or permanent, of a corporation, factory or some other business organization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 公司倒闭
Translation: 公司、工厂或别的企业暂时或永久地终止或暂停。



Code: 1489
English Term: clothing
Definition: Clothes considered as a group.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 衣服
Translation: 衣服的总称。


Code: 1490
English Term: clothing industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 服装工业
Translation:



Code: 1491
English Term: cloud
Definition: Suspensions of minute water droplets or ice crystals produced by the condensation of water vapour.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 云
Translation: 小水滴或冰晶的悬浮液，由水汽凝结而成。



Code: 1499
English Term: coagulation
Definition: A separation or precipitation from a dispersed state of suspensoid particles resulting from their growth; may result from prolonged heating, addition of an electrolyte, or from a condensation reaction between solute and solvent.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 凝结
Translation: 从悬浮体分子不断运动导致的分散状态中分离物质或者析出沉淀。导致的原因可能是长时间的加热、电解液的添加或者在溶液和溶质之间的凝结作用。


Code: 1500
English Term: coal
Definition: The natural, rocklike, brown to black derivative of forest-type plant material, usually accumulated in peat beds and progressively compressed and indurated until it is finally altered in to graphite-like material.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 煤
Translation: 自然的、像石头的、棕色或黑色的森林植物原料的衍生物，通常在泥炭层积累、逐渐被压缩和硬化直到最终变成石墨状结构的材料。


Code: 1505
English Term: coal gasification
Definition: Process of conversion of coal to a gaseous product which is used as fuel in electric power stations.&#10;(Source: ECSK)
Chinese Term: 煤的气化
Translation: 将煤转换成气体产品的处理过程，这种气体产物通常用作发电站的燃料。


Code: 13212
English Term: coal industry
Definition: Industry related with the technical and mechanical activity of removing coal from the earth and preparing it for market.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 煤炭工业
Translation: 与挖掘煤炭以及将其准备投入市场的技术、机械活动相关的工业。



Code: 1506
English Term: coal liquefaction
Definition: The process of preparing a liquid mixture of hydrocarbons by destructive distillation of coal.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 煤的液化
Translation: 通过煤的蒸馏得到一种碳氢化合物的液体混合物的过程。



Code: 1507
English Term: coal mining
Definition: The technical and mechanical job of removing coal from the earth and preparing it for market.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 煤矿开采
Translation: 挖掘煤炭以及将其准备投入市场的技术、机械工作。



Code: 1509
English Term: coal refining
Definition: The processing of coal to remove impurities.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 煤的精化
Translation: 去除煤中的杂质的过程。


Code: 1511
English Term: coal technology
Definition: The processing of coal to make gaseous and liquid fuels.&#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term: 煤炭技术
Translation: 为制造气体和液体燃料，处理煤的过程。


Code: 1502
English Term: coal-based energy
Definition: Power generated by the steam raised by burning coal in fire-tube or water-tube boilers.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 基于煤的能量
Translation: 在烟管锅炉或水管锅炉内燃烧煤得到蒸汽的过程中而获得的能量。


Code: 1503
English Term: coal-fired power plant
Definition: Power plant which is fuelled by coal.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 燃煤电厂
Translation: 使用煤作燃料的电厂。


Code: 1512
English Term: coast
Definition: A line or zone where the land meets the sea or some other large expanse of water.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 海岸
Translation: 陆地与海洋或其他大片水域的交界线或者区域。


Code: 10238
English Term: coast protection
Definition: A form of environmental management designed to allay the progressive degradation of the land by coastal erosion processes. Sea defence works can be undertaken to protect the land from erosion and encroachment by the sea and against flooding. These involve engineering solutions such as groynes, sea walls, bulkheads, revetments and breakwaters.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 海岸防护
Translation: 环境管理的一种形式，目的是减轻海岸侵蚀过程中土地的进步退化。进行海洋防护工作，可以用来保护土地不受大海侵蚀以及抵抗洪水。包括工程解决方法，例如防波堤、海堤、隔离壁、护岸墙和防波板。





Code: 1513
English Term: coastal area
Definition: The areas of land and sea bordering the shoreline and extending seaward through the breaker zone.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沿海区
Translation: 陆地和沿着海岸线以及通过破浪带向海的海面组成的区域。



Code: 1515
English Term: coastal development
Definition: Concentration of human settlements, infrastructures and economical activities along the coasts, being these areas very favourable for trade, communication and marine resources exploitation; the impact of the accelerated population growth and of the industrial and touristic development in these areas has caused the disruption of the ecological integrity of the coastal zones.&#10;(Source: DIFIDa /  RRDA)
Chinese Term: 沿海开发
Translation: 沿着海岸的人类住区、基础设施和经济活动的集中，在这些地区进行贸易、通讯和海洋资源开发非常有利。这些地区的人口加速增加和工业旅游业开发所造成的影响，已经导致了沿海地区的生态整合的破坏。




Code: 1516
English Term: coastal ecosystem
Definition: Marine environments bounded by the coastal land margin (seashore) and the continental shelf 100-200 m below sea level. Ecologically, the coastal and nearshore zones grade from shallow water depths, influenced by the adjacent landmass and input from coastal rivers and estuaries, to the continental shelf break, where oceanic processes predominate. Among the unique marine ecosystems associated with coastal and nearshore waterbodies are seaweed-dominated communities, coral reefs and upwellings.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 沿海的生态系统
Translation: 以沿海陆地边缘（海岸线）和海拔100-200 m以下的大陆架为边界的海洋环境。从生态学的观点看，沿海区划定等级，从受连接的陆地和沿岸河流和河口的输入影响的浅水深，到海洋作用起主导地位的大陆架坡折。在这些与海岸线和近岸水域的水体相关联的独特的海洋生态系统中，水生物主要是海藻群落、珊瑚礁和涌升流。




Code: 1517
English Term: coastal environment
Definition: The areas where the land masses meet the seas. Coastal environments include tidal wetlands, estuaries, bays, shallow near-shore waters, mangrove swamps, and in-shore reef systems. The critical habitats of these zones are: feeding, breeding, nursery, and resting areas. Coastal areas throughout the world are under enormous environmental stress, which is caused by a wide range of factors, including pollution and the destruction and deterioration of marine habitats.&#10;(Source: GILP96 /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 沿海环境
Translation: 陆地与海洋的交界区域。沿海环境包括受潮汐影响的湿地、海口、海湾、近岸浅水区、红树林沼泽和近岸的珊瑚礁系。这些地区的重要生境是：养育、繁殖、培育和休息区域。世界各地的沿海地区都面临着巨大的环境压力，由很多因素引起，包括污染和海洋栖息地的破坏和恶化。



Code: 1519
English Term: coastal erosion
Definition: The gradual wearing away of material from a coast by the action of sea water.&#10;(Source: GREMESa)
Chinese Term: 海岸侵蚀
Translation: 在海水的作用下，海岸物质的逐渐流失。



Code: 1520
English Term: coastal fishing
Definition: Fishing in an area of the sea next to the shoreline.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 沿海捕鱼
Translation: 在靠近海岸线的海域捕鱼。



Code:14146
English Term:coastal management
Definition:Measures by way of planning, prior approval of works, prohibition of some activities, physical structures, and restoration efforts to protect the coastline against the ravages of nature and haphazard and unplanned developments.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:海岸管理
Translation:通过规划、预先批准作业、禁止某些活动、物理结构和复原措施等方式以保护海岸线免受自然、偶发性及无计划开发的破坏。

Code:1523
English Term:coastal pollution
Definition:The presence, release or introduction of polluting substances in or onto the seashore or the land near it.(Source: TOE / DOE / RHW)
Chinese Term:海岸污染
Translation:污染物存在、释出或注入海岸或沿海土地的现象。

Code:1526
English Term:coastal water
Definition:Coastal waters are typically characterized by a shallow continental shelf, gently sloping seaward to a continental slope, which drops relatively abruptly to the deep ocean. The proximity of coastal water to land also influences the water circulation. In the vicinity of freshwater inflows, the nearshore circulation is altered by the presence of density-driven motions. Coastal waters are under enormous environmental stress, caused by a wide range of factors including pollution and the destruction and deterioration of marine habitats.(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:沿海水域
Translation:沿海水域的一般特点是较浅的大陆架，缓慢地向海洋方向倾斜至大陆坡，随后相对突然下倾到深海。沿海水域接近陆地也影响了其水流循环。在淡水流入的区域附近，近岸环流受密度影响而改变。沿海水域目前面临众多因素所引起的严重环境压力，包括污染和海洋栖息地的破坏和退化。

Code:1527
English Term:coastal zone planning
Definition:The objective of coastal management and planning is the preservation of coastal resources whilst simultaneously satisfying the sometimes conflicting interests and requirements of protection, development, usage and conservation.(Source: TELFO)
Chinese Term:沿海地区规划
Translation:海岸管理和规划的目标是在保护海岸资源，同时满足一些如保护、发展、使用及保存的冲突性利益与需求。

Code:1528
English Term:coastguard
Definition:A maritime force which aids shipping, saves lives at sea, prevents smuggling, etc. It also responds to emergencies involving oil spills and other discharges at sea and takes the lead in enforcing the law, including assessing penalties for environmental violations.(Source: CED / PATHUL)
Chinese Term:海岸防卫队
Translation:其任务为帮助运输、海上救援、防止走私等。也包括应对紧急事故，如海上漏油及其他污染物的排放，以及主导执法，包括评估环境破坏的罚责。

Code:1530
English Term:coating
Definition:A material applied onto or impregnated into a substrate for protective, decorative, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, sealers, adhesives, thinners, diluents, and inks.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:涂层
Translation:一种附着在物质或浸渍在其上的物质。这些物质用于保护、装饰和其他功能性目的。这些物质包括但不限于：油漆、清漆、密封剂、粘合剂、稀释剂、稀释液和墨水等。

Code:1532
English Term:cobalt
Definition:A metallic element used chiefly in alloys.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:钴
Translation:一种主要用在合金中的金属元素。

Code:1533
English Term:cockroach
Definition:The most primitive of the living winged insects. It is thought they have been unchanged for more than 300 million years, and are among the oldest fossil insects. Cockroaches are usually found in tropical climates, but a few species, out of the total 3.500 known species, have become pests. They are common household pests in many countries, imported by ship and carried home in grocery bags. Cockroaches eat plant and animal products, including food, paper, clothing and soiled hospital waste, fouling everything they touch with their droppings and unpleasant odour, to which many people are allergic. They are a major health hazard and carry harmful bacteria, protozoan parasites and faunal pathogens, including those that cause typhoid, leprosy and salmonella. Conventional insecticides make little or no impact on the cockroaches population.(Source: WRIGHT / WPR)
Chinese Term:蟑螂
Translation:存活的最原始有翅昆虫。 300多万年没有改变，是最古老的昆虫活化石之一。蟑螂经常发现于炎热天气。 在所有3500个可知品种中，有一些已成为害虫。在许多国家是家庭常见害虫。经常是船运引进，再通过杂货店包裹带回家中。蟑螂吃植物和动物产品，包括食物、纸张、衣服、医院垃圾污秽。他们接触后的所有残留物腐烂，发出难闻气味，许多人对此反感。它们是一个主要的健康威胁，能带来有害细菌、原生寄生虫和动物病原体，包括那些致伤寒、麻风和沙门氏菌病的病原。传统的杀虫剂对蟑螂群体影响不大或几乎无影响。

Code:1542
English Term:code
Definition:A systematic collection, compendium or revision of laws, rules, or regulations. A private or official compilation of all permanent laws in force consolidated and classified according to subject matter. Many states have published official codes of all laws in force, including the common law and statutes as judicially interpreted, which have been compiled by code commissions and enacted by the legislatures.(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:法规/法典
Translation:有系统的集合、摘要或修订本的法律、规则或法规。根据主要事件有效地进行加强与分类,由私人或官方编撰的所有永久法律。许多政府已发行官方所有有效法律的法典，包括普通法及由法规委员编辑及立法机关颁布的司法解释法令。

Code:1541
English Term:code of practice
Definition:A systematic collection of procedures outlining the established method of application of all relevant laws, rules or regulations to a specific endeavor.(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:工作守则
Translation:应用相关法律、规则或法规,有系统的收集建立程序概述的方法,以有效完成工作。

Code:11466
English Term:codification
Definition:The process of collecting and arranging systematically, usually by subject, the laws of a state or country, or the rules and regulations covering a particular area or subject of law or practice.(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:法规汇编
Translation:州或国家的法律、或涵盖某一特定地区的法律主题或法律惯例的规定或规则，通常依主题做系统的收集和整理的过程。

Code:1548
English Term:coelenterate
Definition:Animals that have a single body cavity (the coelenteron). The name was formerly given to a phylum comprising the Cnidaria and Ctenophora, but these are now regarded as phyla in their own right, and the name Coelenterata has fallen from use, although it is sometimes used as a synonym for Cnidaria.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:腔肠动物
Translation:单体腔（体肠腔）的动物，这个名称以前是腔肠动物和栉水动物的总称，现在各自成为独立的门。但现在Coelenterata这个名称已不再使用，尽管有时也还被用作腔肠动物的同义词。

Code:1550
English Term:cogeneration
Definition:Usually the generation of heat in the form of steam, and the generation of power in the form of electricity. Combined heat and power plants are able to convert a much higher proportion of the energy in fuel into final output. The steam produced may be used through heat exchangers in a district heating scheme, while the electricity provides lighting and power.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:汽电共生
Translation:通常以水蒸汽的形式产生热，而以电的形式产生能量。结合热和能量工厂，可以从燃料中转换更高比例的能量输出。所产生的水蒸汽可以用于区域性供热体系中的热转换器，而电能可以提供照明和动力。

Code:1553
English Term:co-incineration
Definition:Joint incineration of hazardous waste, in any form, with refuse and/or sludge.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:混烧
Translation:将任何型态的有害废弃物和垃圾及污泥共同焚化。

Code:1554
English Term:coke
Definition:A coherent, cellular, solid residue remaining from the dry distillation of a coking coal or of pitch, petroleum, petroleum residue, or other carbonaceous materials; contains carbon as its principal constituent.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:焦炭
Translation:凝聚在一起的蜂窝状固体残渣。它是炼焦煤、沥青、石油、炼制残油或其它含碳物质经干式蒸馏后的残留物;碳是其基本组成成分。

Code:1556
English Term:cold
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:冷
Translation:无需定义。

Code:1559
English Term:cold zone ecosystem
Definition:The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings located in climatic regions where the air temperature is below 10° Celsius for eight to eleven months of the year.(Source: TOE / EOC)
Chinese Term:寒带生态系统
Translation:在一年中有长达8至11个月期间空气温度低于摄氏10度的地区中，生物群体与周遭非生命环境的交互作用系统。

Code:1561
English Term:coliform bacterium
Definition:A group of bacteria that are normally abundant in the intestinal tracts of human and other warm-blooded animals and are used as indicators (being measured as the number of individuals found per millilitre of water) when testing the sanitary quality of water.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:大肠杆菌
Translation:大量正常存在于人及其他温血动物肠道内的菌群。被用作测试水的卫生品质的指标（每升水所含细菌数量）。

Code:12260
English Term:collective wastewater treatment
Chinese Term:废水集中处理

Code:1567
English Term:colloid
Definition:An intimate mixture of two substances, one of which, called the dispersed phase, is uniformly distributed in a finely divided state through the second substance, called the dispersion medium.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:胶体
Translation:两种物质的直接混合，其中一种称为离散面，借着另种称为离散介质而均匀分布在完全分离的状态。

Code: 1568
English Term: colloidal state
Definition: A system of particles in a dispersion medium, with properties distinct from those of a true solution because of the larger size of the particles. The presence of these particles can often be detected by means of the ultramicroscope.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term:胶体状态
Translation:一个分散系中的颗粒系统，由于粒子尺寸较大，其性质有别于真正的溶液。这些颗粒可以通过超显微镜检测手段检测出来。（来源：UVAROV）

Code: 1569
English Term: colonisation
Definition: The successful invasion of a new habitat by a species.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:集群现象
Translation:对一个新栖息地的成功入侵。（来源：LBC）

Code: 1571
English Term: colour
Definition: An attribute of things that results from the light they reflect, transmit, or emit in so far as this light causes a visual sensation that depends on its wavelengths.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:色彩
Translation:由某物所反射，传送，或排放出的光所导致的该物的一种属性，现在暂时被认为是因为由于波长差异，不同光能引发不同的视觉感觉。（来源：CED）

Code: 14914
English Term: colour composition
Definition: A remote-sensing term referring to the process of assigning different colours to different spectral bands. The colour picture formed by this process is called a "colour composite" (a colour image produced through optical combination of multiband images by projection through filters) and is produced by assigning a colour to an image of the Earth's surface recorded in a particular waveband. For a Landsat colour composite, the green waveband is coloured blue, the red waveband is coloured green and the infrared waveband is coloured red. This produces an image closely approximating a false colour photograph. Colour composite images are easier to interpret than separate images recording different wavebands. US national experimental crop inventories are based upon visual interpretation of Landsat colour composites.&#10;(Source: RRDA / WHIT)
Chinese Term:集群现象
Translation:遥感术语，指的是对不同的可见光带分配不同颜色的过程。在此过程中形成的色彩叫做“复合色”（一种色彩，采用过滤投射对多波段图像进行光学结合），并且由为地球表面的图像记录制定色彩而形成。对于陆地卫星彩色合成，绿色波段是蓝色，红色波段是绿色，红外波段是红色。这将产生一个非常近似假彩照的图片。彩色复合图像比记录不同波长的单独图像更容易被理解。US国家实验作物资源目录是根据对陆地卫星色彩组成的视觉转换。

Code: 1570
English Term: colourimetry
Definition: Any technique by which an unknown colour is evaluated in terms of standard colours; the technique may be visual, photoelectric or indirect by means of spectrophotometry.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:色度测量
Translation:采用标准颜色来评价一种未知颜色的任何技术，该技术可能是视觉，光电或间接分光光度法手段。（来源：MGH）

Code: 7768
English Term: colubrid
Definition: Any snakes of the family of Colubridae, including many harmless snakes, such as the grass snake and whip belonging to the Colubridae.
Chinese Term:无毒蛇类
Translation:游蛇科的一种，包括许多无毒蛇，如草蛇（the  grass snake）和属于游蛇科的whip蛇。（来源：CED）

Code: 1574
English Term: combination effect
Definition: A combined effect of two or more substances or organisms which is greater than the sum of the individual effect of each.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:综合效应
Translation:两种或两种以上的物质或生物的综合效果，影响超过了单个个体效应的总和。（来源：KOREN）

Code: 1575
English Term: combined cycle-power station
Definition: This type of plant is flexible in response and can be built in the 100-600 MW capacity range. It produces electrical power from both a gas turbine (ca. 1300°C gas inlet temperature), fuelled by natural gas or oil plus a steam turbine supplied with the steam generated by the 500°C exhaust gases from the gas turbine. The thermal efficiency of these stations is ca. 50 per cent compared with a maximum of 40 per cent from steam turbine coal fired power stations. This type of plant can be built in two years compared with six years for a coal-fired station and 10-15 years for nuclear.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term:联合循环电站
Translation: 这种发电站反应灵活，可在100-600兆瓦容量范围内兴建。它依靠气体涡轮机（入口温度约1300°C的气体）发电，由500℃所产生的蒸汽供应蒸汽涡轮机，使用天然气或石油天然气废气涡轮气体作为燃料。这些站的热效率大约为-50%，而燃煤蒸汽涡轮机最多只有-40%。这种电站类型可以在两年内建成，同等级的煤电站需要6年，核电站需要10-15年。

Code: 12276
English Term: combined sewer system
Definition: A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a storm sewer, or as an industrial sewer and a storm sewer.&#10;(Source: JJK)
Chinese Term:合流制排水系统
Translation:一种作为排放清洁污水和雨水，或排放工业污水和雨水的下水道。（来源：JJK）

Code: 11296
English Term: combined transport
Definition: Transport in which more than one carrier is used, e.g. road, rail and sea.(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term:联合运输
Translation:使用了超过一个运输工具的运输，例如公路，铁路和水路。（来源：ECHO1）

Code: 1576
English Term: combined waste water
Definition: A mixture of domestic or industrial wastewater and surface runoff.&#10;(Source: ISEP / WWC)
Chinese Term:综合废水
Translation:一种家庭或工业废水和地表径流的混合物。（来源：ISEP/WWC）

Code: 1578
English Term: combustibility
Definition:The property of a substance of being capable of igniting and burning.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:可燃性
Translation:物质能够被点燃和燃烧的性质。（来源：CEDa）

Code: 1582
English Term: combustion engine
Definition: An engine that operates by the energy of combustion of a fuel.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:内燃机
Translation:一种由燃料燃烧供能的发动机。（来源：MGH）

Code: 1583
English Term: combustion gas
Definition: The exhaust gas from a combustion process. It may contain nitrogen oxides, carbon oxides, water vapour, sulfur oxides, particles and many chemical pollutants.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:燃烧废气
Translation:燃烧过程中排放出的气体。可能包含氮氧化物，碳氧化物，水蒸气，硫氧化物，小颗粒和许多其他化学污染物。（来源：LEE）

Code: 1584
English Term: combustion residue
Definition: A residual layer of ash on the heat-exchange surfaces of a combustion chamber, resulting from the burning of fuel.(Source: APD)
Chinese Term:燃烧残余物
Translation: 燃料燃烧产生的剩余灰层，在进行热交换的燃烧室表面产生。（来源：APD）

Code: 10758
English Term: commercial fishery
Definition: Such fisheries belong to one of two groups: one catching demersal (bottom-living) fish, e.g. cod, haddock, plaice, sole; the other catching pelagic (surface-living) fish, e.g. anchovy, tuna, herring.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:商品渔业
Translation: 这种渔业属于以下两个集团之一：一种捕捞底层（底层生活）的鱼类，如鳕鱼，黑线鳕，鲽鱼，可食用比目鱼；另一种捕捞中上层（表面生活）的鱼类，如鳀鱼，金枪鱼，鲱鱼。（来源：GOOD）

Code: 1590
English Term: commercial law
Definition: The whole body of substantive jurisprudence applicable to the rights, intercourse and relations of persons engaged in commerce, trade or mercantile pursuits.(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:商法
Translation:人们从事于商业，贸易或商机追逐时，人与人之间的交际和相互关系所使用权利的独立法学主体。（来源：BLACK）

Code: 1591
English Term: commercial noise
Definition: Noise emitted from commercial activities.
Chinese Term:商业噪音
Translation: 商业活动中发出的噪音。

Code: 1594
English Term: commercial traffic
Definition: The operations and movements related to the transportation and exchange of goods. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:市场运输
Translation: 有关货物的运输与交换活动。

Code: 13242
English Term: commercial transaction
Definition: The conduct or carrying on of trade, business or a financial matter to a conclusion or settlement. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:商业事务
Translation: 解决商业或财政事务的经营管理或运输等问题。

Code: 1595
English Term: commercial vehicle
Definition: Vehicle designed and equipped for the transportation of goods. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:商用车辆
Translation: 设计及配备用来运输货物的机动车辆。

Code: 1588
English Term: commercialisation
Definition: Distribution of material goods to consumers, through retailing and wholesaling. (Source: GOODa)
Chinese Term: 配售交易
Translation: 通过批发或零售将物质产品分配给消费者。
Code: 1601
English Term: common agreement
Definition: A system of law established by following earlier judicial decisions and customs, rather than statutory or legislatively enacted law.(Source: BLD / WOR)
Chinese Term: 普通协定
Translation: 由早期的司法判决和惯例而确立的法律体系，不同于法定的或立法机关颁布的法律。

Code: 1600
English Term: common agricultural policy
Definition: The set of regulations and practices adopted by member countries of the European Community that consolidates efforts in promoting or ensuring reasonable pricing, fair standards of living, stable markets, increased farm productivity and methods for dealing with food supply or surplus.(Source: CNI)
Chinese Term: 共同农业政策
Translation: 欧盟会员国所采用的法规与策略，用以促进与保障合理价格、适当生活标准、稳定市场、增加农场生产力及处理食物供给或剩余的方法。

Code: 13294
English Term: common commercial policy
Definition: The set of uniform trade principles or practices established by an European Community customs union, which implements common tariff rates, tariff and trade agreements with non-member countries, import and export policies, and export promotion.(Source: EUR)
Chinese Term: 共同商业政策
Translation: 由欧盟的关税联盟所建立的一系列共同贸易原则或惯例，应用于制定共同关税税率、与非会员国家间的关税与贸易合约、进出口政策与出口的推广。

Code: 13295
English Term: common tariff policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by member countries, in which it is agreed to impose a system of duties or tax charges on imports from non-member countries.(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 共同关税政策
Translation:  会员国采用或进行的行动方针，同意对非会员国的进口商品征收关税或税款的收费制度。

Code: 1605
English Term: communications
Definition: The concept, science, technique and process of transmitting, receiving or otherwise exchanging information and data.
Chinese Term: 通信政策
Translation:  被政府采纳用于有关通信传播媒体管理的措施。

Code: 13214
English Term: communications industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 通信政策
Translation:

Code: 13298
English Term: communications policy
Definition: Measures and practices adopted by governments relating to the management of communication media. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 通信政策
Translation: 被政府采纳用于有关通信传播媒体管理的措施。

Code: 13314
English Term: communications system
Definition: A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources designed to exchange information and data by means of mutually understood symbols.(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 通讯系统
Translation: 透过彼此了解的符号，协调整合人类、设备或其他资源以进行资讯和资料的交流。

Code:13282
English Term:Community act
Chinese Term:共同体法案

Code:13237
English Term:Community budget
Definition:A schedule of revenues and expenditures for a specific time period that is devised by the European Community, a body of people organized into a political unity.&#10;(Source: MGHME / OED)
Chinese Term:共同体预算
Translation:欧洲共同体(为由人民团体所组成的政治联合主体)针对一特定时期所设计的税收和支出计划。

Code:10851
English Term:community facility
Definition:Buildings, equipment and services provided for a community.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:社区设施
Translation:用于社区使用的建筑、器具和设备。

Code:13145
English Term:Community finance
Definition:The financial resources or income of the European Community, a body of people organized into a political unity.&#10;(Source: ISEP / OED)
Chinese Term:共同体金融
Translation:欧洲共同体(为由人民团体所组成的政治联合主体)的财政资源与收入。

Code:1616
English Term:Community law
Definition:The law of European Community (as opposed to the national laws of the member states.) It consists of the treaties establishing the EC (together with subsequent amending treaties) community legislation, and decisions of the court of justice of the European Communities. Any provision of the treaties or of community legislation that is directly applicable or directly effective in a member state forms part of the law of that state and prevails over its national law in the event of any inconsistency between the two.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term:欧洲共同体法规
Translation:欧洲共同体的法律(相对于会员国的国家法律)。它包含建立欧洲共同体（连同后来的修正协订）的立法协定,与欧洲共同体司法院的决定。任何协定或共同体立法的规定，都将直接适用或直接有效于各会员国，形成各会员国国家法律的一部分,及作为处理两会员国在发生意见不一致事件时优先于各会员国国家法律。

Code:13281
English Term:Community legal system
Definition:The directly applicable legislation of the European Community regulating the relations of member states.&#10;(Source: CURZONa)
Chinese Term:共同体法律系统
Translation:欧洲共同体为规范会员国的直接通用法律。

Code:1618
English Term:community participation
Definition:Involvement in public or private actions, as members or as a member of a particular ethnic, political or social group, with the purpose of exerting influence.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:社区参与
Translation:以一个特殊种族、政治或社会组织的群体会员或单一会员参与公共或个人活动以发挥影响目的。

Code:11493
English Term:Community ruling
Chinese Term:共同管辖


Code:1619
English Term:community-pays principle
Definition:A tenet of environmental policy, according to which the costs of ecological challenges, environmental quality improvements and the removal of environmental hazards are allotted to community groups or local corporations and, thereby, to the general public.&#10;(Source: GAB)
Chinese Term:共同体支付原则
Translation:依据生态的挑战、环境品质的改善，和环境有害物质的去除等成本，专款拨给社区组织或当地政府，并借此拨给一般民众的环境政策原则。

Code:1622
English Term:commuter traffic
Definition:Traffic caused by people travelling regularly over some distance, as between a suburb and a city and back, between their place of residence and their place of work.
Chinese Term:通勤交通
Translation:由于通勤者规律地往返于某段距离而产生的交通，例如城市与郊区间、居住地和工作地间的往返。

Code:1623
English Term:commuting
Chinese Term:通勤

Code:1625
English Term:compaction
Definition:Reduction of the bulk of solid waste by rolling and tamping.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:压缩
Translation:用滚压或填压方式缩减庞大的固体废弃物

Code:1628
English Term:company policy
Definition:Official guidelines or set of guidelines adopted by a company for the management of its activity.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:公司政策
Translation:被公司采用为活动管理的正式指导方针或一整套规范。

Code:13259
English Term:company structure
Definition:The type of organization of a company. Three kinds of structure are usually recognized: centralized, formal or hierarchical.&#10;(Source: ECONSK)
Chinese Term:公司结构
Translation:公司的组织类型；通常有三种公司结构：中央集权的、正式的、阶级式的。

Code:1630
English Term:comparative law
Definition:The study of the principles of legal science by the comparison of various systems of law.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:比较法
Translation:通过比较各种不同系统的法律，研究法律的科学准则。

Code:1631
English Term:comparative test
Definition:Tests conducted to determine whether one procedure is better than another.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:对照实验
Translation:用来判定一种程序是否优于另一种的实验。

Code:1632
English Term:comparison
Definition:The placing together or juxtaposing of two or more items to ascertain, bring into relief, or establish their similarities and dissimilarities.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:比较
Translation:将两种或多种项目放在一起或并列，以确定、排除或建立它们之间的异同。

Code:1633
English Term:compensation
Definition:Equivalent in money for a loss sustained; equivalent given for property taken or for an injury done to another; recompense or reward for some loss, injury or service.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:赔偿
Translation:因可证实的损失而给予与等值的金钱；或因财产被夺取或他人造成的伤害而给予与等值财物；或因损失、伤害或服务所作的补偿或回报。

Code:12905
English Term:compensation for damage
Definition:Equivalent in money or other form for a loss sustained for an injury, for property taken, etc.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:损失补偿
Translation:以等价的金钱或其它形式对受伤或财产损失等进行补偿。

Code:1636
English Term:compensatory measure
Definition:Any administrative or legislative action, procedure or enactment designed to redress disruptions of ecological integrity or damage to the supply of natural resources.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term:补偿措施
Translation:为了避免生态体系崩溃或破坏自然资源供给所设计的任何行政或立法程序、法案或条例。

Code:1637
English Term:compensatory tax
Definition:Compulsory charge levied by a government for the purpose of redressing or countervailing economic disparity.&#10;(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term:补偿税
Translation:政府为调整或抵消经济差异，而强制征收的税收。

Code:1638
English Term:competition (biological)
Definition:The simultaneous demand by two or more organisms or species for an essential common resource that is actually or potentially in limited supply.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:竞争
Translation:两单位以上的生物体或物种﹐对必要的公共资源同时产生需求，而该资源的供给可能是有限的﹐或实际上是有限的。

Code:13277
English Term:competition law
Definition:That part of the law dealing with matters such as those arising from monopolies and mergers, restrictive trading agreements, resale price maintenance and agreements involving distortion of competition affected by EU rules.&#10;(Source: CURZON)
Chinese Term:竞争法
Translation:处理包括垄断和兼并、限制性贸易协定、不得低价转让商品的规定及受欧盟规则影响的扭曲性竞争等商业活动的法律。

Code:10773
English Term:competitive examination
Definition:A test given to a candidate for a certificate or a position and concerned typically with problems to be solved, skills to be demonstrated, or tasks to be performed.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:检测考试
Translation:对于欲获取证书或学位的候选人进行考核，一般考核其解决问题、展示技能或完成任务的能力。

Code:1641
English Term:competitiveness
Definition:The ability of a firm to strive in the market with rivals in the production and sale of commodities or services and, analogously, the ability of a country to maintain a relatively high standard of living for its citizens through trade in international markets.&#10;(Source: http://www.indiana.edu/~ipe/glossry.html / OED)
Chinese Term:竞争力
Translation:一个公司在市场中与竞争对手就商品的生产和销售或服务的竞争能力；相同地，一个国家通过贸易在国际市场中为其国民维持相对高生活品质的能力。

English Term:complex formation
Definition:Formation of a complex compound. Also known as complexing or complexation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:混合作用
Translation:混合物的合成，也称为混合或混合作用。

Code:1646
English Term:complexing agent
Definition:A substance capable of forming a complex compound with another material in solution.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:助混剂
Translation:一种能够与溶液中的其它物质形成复杂混合物的物质。

Code:1647
English Term:composite pollution
Definition:Emissions of ozone-degrading gases (CFCs, halons); emissions of greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide, methane, CFCs, nitrous oxides, halons); emissions of acidifying gases (sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides); emissions of substances that contribute to eutrophication (phosphate and nitrogen-containing materials); emissions of toxic materials (pesticides, radioactive substances, priority toxic substances); solid wastes returned to the environment.&#10;(Source: UNEP)
Chinese Term:混合污染
Translation:指破坏臭氧层气体的排放（如氟氯碳化合物、海龙）；温室气体的排放（如二氧化碳、甲烷，氟氯碳化合物、氮氧化物、海龙）；酸性气体的排放（如硫氧化物、氮氧化物）；有助于产优养化物质的排放（磷酸盐、含氮物质）；有毒物质的排放（农药、放射性物质、巨毒物质）；及固体废弃物返回到环境中。

Code:13327
English Term:composition of population
Definition:The constituent groupings and proportions of the total inhabitants of a given nation, area, region or city, as seen from various perspectives.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:人口组成
Translation:在给定国家、区域、地区或城市等,不同空间尺度下的总居民组成群落和比例。

Code:1649
English Term:compost
Definition:A mixture of decaying organic matter used to fertilize and condition the soil.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:堆肥
Translation:经腐熟的混合有机物，用于施肥和调节土壤。

Code:1651
English Term:compostable waste
Definition:Waste consisting largely of biodegradable organic matter.
Chinese Term:可堆肥废弃物
Translation:含大量生物可分解性的有机物质为主的废弃物。

Code:1652
English Term:composting
Definition:The natural biological decomposition of organic material in the presence of air to form a humus-like material. Controlled methods of composting include mechanical mixing and aerating, ventilating the materials by dropping them through a vertical series of aerated chambers, or placing the compost in piles out in the open air and mixing it or turning it periodically.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:堆肥
Translation:在空气存在的状况下，将有机物质转变成类似腐殖质的自然生物降解。堆肥的控制方式包括机械混合和曝气，投入一系列垂直的曝气室中进行通风曝气，或露天堆放并定期搅拌或翻转。

Code:1653
English Term:composting by producer
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:人工堆肥
Translation:无需定义。

Code:1659
English Term:compression
Definition:Reduction in the volume of a substance due to pressure.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:压缩
Translation:物质由于压力而体积减少。

Code:1660
English Term:compressor
Definition:A mechanical device a) to provide the desired pressure for chemical and physical reactions, b) to control boiling points of fluids, as in gas separation, refrigeration, and evaporation, c) to evacuate enclosed volumes, d) to transport gases or vapors, e) to store compressible fluids as gases or liquids under pressure and assist in recovering them from storage or tank cars, and f) to convert mechanical energy to fluid energy for operating instruments, air agitation, fluidization, solid transport, blowcases, air tools, and motors.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:压缩机
Translation:一种机械装置。（1）为化学和物理反应提供所需的压力。（2）控制例如气体分离、制冷和蒸发等流动体的沸点。（3）排空空体积（4）传送气体或蒸汽。（5）在一定的压力下以气态或液态的形式储存可压缩的流动体，以方便其储放。（6）为空气搅动、流体化、固体运送、鼓风、空压工具和马达等的装置操作，将机械能量转变为流动能量。

Code:1663
English Term:compulsory use
Chinese Term:强制使用

Code:1674
English Term:concentration (process)
Definition:The process of increasing the quantity of a component in a solution. The opposite of dilution.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:浓缩
Translation:增加溶液中某一种成分的量的过程。相反的过程为稀释。

Code:1673
English Term:concentration (value)
Definition:In solutions, the mass, volume, or number of moles of solute present in proportion to the amount of solvent or total solution.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:溶度（值）
Translation:溶液中与溶剂和总溶液的量成正比的溶质质量、体积、或摩尔数。

Code:10126
English Term:concept of environment
Definition:The development at any level of a general notion of the surrounding ecosystem, its foundational relationship to human life and the need to preserve its integrity.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term:环境观
Translation:在一般概念层次上的环境生态系统的任何阶段，以及其与人类生命的基本关系和保持其完整性需求方面的发展。

Code:11521
English Term:concession
Definition:Any rebate, abatement, voluntary grant of or a yielding to a demand or claim, typically made by a government or controlling authority to an individual or organization.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:特许
Translation:对某一要求或主张的任何折扣、折损、自愿性给予或屈服﹐一般指政府或控管权责单位对个人或组织的让步。

Code:1677
English Term:concrete
Definition:A mixture of aggregate, water, and a binder, usually Portland cement; it hardens to stonelike condition when dry.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:混凝土
Translation:水和胶合剂的混合物。 通常为波特兰水泥，当它干燥后会像岩石一样的坚硬。

Code:1679
English Term:concrete products industry
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:混凝土制造业
Translation:无需定义。

Code:1681
English Term:condensation (process)
Definition:Transformation from a gas to a liquid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:凝结
Translation:气体转化为液体。

Code:1686
English Term:conductivity
Definition:The ratio of the electric current density to the electric field in a material. Also known as electrical conductivity.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:导电度
Translation:物质中电流密度和电场的比例。

Code:11559
English Term:conflict
Definition:A state of opposition or disagreement between ideas, interests, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:冲突
Translation:意见、利益等间相反或不一致的状态。

Code:1689
English Term:conflict of aims
Chinese Term:目标冲突


Code:1690
English Term:conflict of interests
Definition:Clash between public interest and the private pecuniary interest of the individual concerned. A situation in which regard for one duty tends to lead to disregard of another.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:利益冲突
Translation:公共利益与个人所关心的私人财务利益的冲突。其情形为﹐考虑其中一项任务时，会倾向于忽略另一项任务。

Code:1688
English Term:conflicting use
Chinese Term:互相冲突的利用

Code:1691
English Term:congress
Definition:A formal meeting, often consisting of representatives of various organizations, that is assembled to promote, discuss or make arrangements regarding a particular subject or some matter of common interest.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:代表大会
Translation:通常由不同组织的代表所组成的正式会议，为了改进、讨论、或安排有关某一特殊主题或一些共同利益问题而召开。

Code:1692
English Term:conifer
Definition:An order of conebearing plants which includes nearly all the present day Gymnospermae. Most are tall evergreen trees with needle-like (e.g., pines), linear (e.g. firs) or scale-like (e.g., cedars) leaves. They are characteristic of temperate zones and the main forest trees of colder regions. They provide timber, resins, tars, turpentine and pulp for paper.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:针叶树
Translation:一种球果目植物。 包括几乎现在所有的裸子植物。 大多为具有针样（如松树）、线状（如枞树）或鳞状（如雪松）叶的高大常青树。 它们是生活在温暖地区和偏寒地区的主要森林树木。 可以提供木材、树脂、焦油、松节油和纸浆。

Code:1694
English Term:coniferous forest
Definition:A forest type characterized by cone-bearing, needle-leaved trees. They are generally, but not necessarily, evergreen and relatively shallow-rooted. Since they grow more rapidly than most broad-leaved trees, conifers are extensively planted as a source of softwood timber and pulp. They are tolerant of wide-ranging climatic conditions, of many different types of soil and of considerable differences in terrain. Thus, they are found from the polar latitudes to the tropics, on most types of soils (especially, thin acid soils) and from mountain summits to coastal environments.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:针叶林
Translation:以生长球果的针叶树为特征的森林类型。通常是长绿且相对浅根的。因为比大多数阔叶树生长的较快，针叶树广泛地被种植，以作为软木材与木浆的来源。针叶树能够耐受广泛的气候条件，许多不同类型的土壤，以及地理上相当重大的差异性。于是，从极地纬度到赤道，大多数类型的土壤(特别是薄的酸性土壤)，以及从山峰到海岸环境，都能发现的到针叶林的踪迹。

Code:13976
English Term:coniferous tree
Chinese Term:针叶树


Code:14543
English Term:coniferous wood
Chinese Term:针叶林

Code:1700
English Term:conservation
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:保护
Translation:无需定义。

Code:1706
English Term:conservation of genetic resources
Definition:Controlled utilization, protection and development of the gene pool of natural and cultivated organisms to ensure variety and variability and for current and potential value to human welfare.&#10;(Source: TOE / ISEP)
Chinese Term:基因资源保护
Translation:为保证品种多样化及多变化，同时考虑当前与潜在人类福祉，而对自然及人工培育有机体基因库进行的控制性利用、保护和发展。

Code:1708
English Term:conservation of monuments
Definition:Measures adopted for the protection and the maintenance of hystorical and art monuments.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term:历史遗迹保护
Translation:保护和维护历史和艺术遗迹所采取的措施。

Code:6169
English Term:conservation of petroleum resources
Definition:Controlled utilization, protection and development of exploited and potentially exploitable sources of crude oil to meet current demand and ensure future requirements.&#10;(Source: MHE)
Chinese Term:石油资源保护
Translation:在控制下利用、保护和发展已开发及潜在可开发的原油资源，以满足目前需要及确保未来的需求。

Code:7983
English Term:conservation of species
Definition:Controlled utilization, protection or development of selected classes of plants or animals for their richness, biodiversity and benefits to humanity.&#10;(Source: TOE / EEN)
Chinese Term:物种保护
Translation:为维持动植物的数量、生物多样性以及对人类的利益，对选出动植物种类的控制利用、保护和发展。

Code:6376
English Term:conservation policy
Definition:The guiding procedure, philosophy or course of action for preserving and renewing human and natural resources.&#10;(Source: RHW / TOE)
Chinese Term:保护政策
Translation:保护及更新人类与自然资源的指导程序、理论或行动方针。

Code:1712
English Term:constitutional law
Definition:That branch of the public law of a nation or state which treats of the organization, powers and frame of government, the distribution of political and governmental authorities and functions, the fundamental principles which are to regulate the relations of government and citizen and which prescribes generally the plan and method according to which the public affairs of the nation or state are to be administered.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:宪法
Translation:指一国公法的分支，讨论政府组织、权力和架构、政治及政府职权和功能的分配、规范政府和公民间关系的基本准则，并大概地制定管理国家公共事务的基本计划和方法。

Code:1718
English Term:construction equipment
Definition:Heavy power machines which perform specific construction or demolition functions.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:营建设备
Translation:执行特定建造或破坏功能的重型动力机械。

Code:1724
English Term:construction noise
Definition:Noise resulting from construction activities such as site preparation, site clearance, demolition of existing buildings, piling, concreting, erection of structures, etc.
Chinese Term:建筑噪音
Translation:来自建筑活动的噪音，例如场地的准备、清理、既有建筑物的拆除、打桩、灌浆、及建物建造过程等。

Code:1725
English Term:construction of installations
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:设施建造
Translation:无需定义。

Code:13297
English Term:construction policy
Definition:A course of action adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization, which plans or organizes for the maintenance, development and erection of houses, offices, bridges or other building structures.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:营建政策
Translation:为了维护、发展和建筑房屋、办公室、桥梁、或其他的建筑结构，而由政府、商业或其他的组织所采用或进行的行动方案。

Code:1728
English Term:construction technology
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:营建技术
Translation:无需定义。

Code:1730
English Term:construction with recycled material
Definition:Construction with waste product used as raw material.&#10;(Source: LANDYa)
Chinese Term:利用回收物建造
Translation:以废弃的产品为原料进行建筑。

Code:1731
English Term:construction work
Definition:The construction, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or repair of buildings, highways, or other changes or improvement to real property, including facilities providing utility services. The term also includes the supervision, inspection, and other on-site functions incidental to the actual construction.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:营建工程
Translation:对建筑物、公路或其它不动产的建造、复原、改造、扩建、修补，包括服务性设施。该术语也包含监督、检查和实地建筑现场功能的含义。

Code:12923
English Term:consultancy
Definition:The position or practice of a qualified person paid for advice or services.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:咨询顾问
Translation:有资质人士因其建议或服务而获得酬劳的职位或工作。

Code:1732
English Term:consultation
Definition:Any meeting or inquiry of concerned persons or advisors for the purpose of deliberation, discussion or decision on some matter or action.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:咨询
Translation:由相关人士会议或咨询专家为协议、讨论或决定某些问题或行动而召开的会议或请求。

Code:1736
English Term:consumer behaviour
Definition:An observable pattern of activity concerned with the purchase of goods and services and susceptible to the influence of marketing and advertising strategies.&#10;(Source: CON)
Chinese Term:消费者行为
Translation:与购买商品和服务有关的显著行为模式，其易受市场行销和广告策略的影响。

Code:1737
English Term:consumer goods
Definition:Manufactured products intended primarily for personal use by individuals or families and classified as either durables or non-durables, depending on length of use.&#10;(Source: ODE / Greenwald)
Chinese Term:生活消费品
Translation:个人或家庭用于私人用途的制品，依使用时间的长短可分为耐用品或非耐用品。

Code:1738
English Term:consumer group
Definition:A collection of persons united to address concerns regarding the purchase and use of specific commodities or services.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:消费者团体
Translation:一群团结一致的人，关切有关购买与使用某种特定日用品或服务的行为。

Code:1739
English Term:consumer information
Definition:Factual, circumstantial and, often, comparative knowledge concerning various goods, services or events, their quality and the entities producing them.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:消费者信息
Translation:关于各种货物、服务、或事件，对于其品质与其生产单位的实际、详细及比较的知识。

Code:10008
English Term:consumer product
Definition:Economic good that directly satisfies human wants or desires.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:消费品
Translation:直接满足人类需求或渴望的经济商品。

Code:1740
English Term:consumer protection
Definition:Information disseminated or measures and programs established to prevent and reduce damage, injury or loss to users of specific commodities and services.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:消费者保护
Translation:为了避免与减少特定日用品与服务所造成的危害或损害所做的资讯宣传、方法与计划。

Code:1742
English Term:consumer waste
Definition:Materials purchased, used and discarded by the buyer, or consumer, as opposed to those discarded in a manufacturing process.&#10;(Source: EED)
Chinese Term:消费性废弃物
Translation:顾客或消费者所购买、使用并抛弃的物质，相对于工业制造过程中抛弃的物质。

Code:1743
English Term:consumption
Definition:Spending for survival or enjoyment in contrast to providing for future use or production.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:消费
Translation:用于生存和享受的开支，与供应未来的使用或生产相反。

Code:1745
English Term:consumption pattern
Definition:The combination of qualities, quantities, acts and tendencies characterizing a community or human group's use of resources for survival, comfort and enjoyment.&#10;(Source: ODE / RHW)
Chinese Term:消费模式
Translation:结合质、量、行为与倾向来描绘社区或聚落为生存、舒适与享乐时所使用资源的特性。

Code:1746
English Term:container
Definition:A large case that can be transported by truck and than easily loaded on a ship.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:集装箱
Translation:一种能够被卡车运输且易于装载上船的大箱子。

Code:1748
English Term:containment (nuclear industry)
Definition:The reinforced steel or concrete vessel that encloses a nuclear reactor. It is designed to withstand minor explosions in the core, to keep radionuclides from escaping into the environment, and to be safe against terrorist attack.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:密封装置(核工业)
Translation:以加固钢制品或混凝土船用于封装核反应堆。这种设计使其能够经受住小规模核爆，从而可以防止放射性核子逃逸到环境中去，同时也可以经受住恐怖袭击。

Code:12007
English Term:contaminated area
Definition: Any site or region that is damaged, harmed or made unfit for use by the introduction of unwanted substances, particularly microorganisms, chemicals, toxic and radioactive materials and wastes.&#10;(Source: TOE / HMD)
Chinese Term:受污染地区
Translation:因为有害物质的使用而受到损害的地点或区域，特别指微生物，化学物质，毒性物质，放射性物质与废弃物。

Code:1751
English Term:contaminated soil
Definition:Soil which because of its previous or current use has substances under, on or in it which, depending upon their concentration and/or quantity, may represent a direct potential or indirect hazard to man or to the environment.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:污染的土壤
Translation:由于先前或当前的使用，导致土壤的下层、表层或内部含有某些物质，这些物质的浓度和/或含量达到一定程度会对人类或整个环境带来直接潜在的或间接的危害。

Code:1752
English Term:contamination
Definition:Introduction into or onto water, air, soil or other media of microorganisms, chemicals, toxic substances, wastes, wastewater or other pollutants in a concentration that makes the medium unfit for its next intended use.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:污染
Translation:将微生物、化学药品、有毒物质、废弃物、废水或其他污染物引入到水、空气、土壤或其他介质的环境中并达到一定浓度，使这些环境不再适于既定的用途。

Code:10148
English Term:continent
Definition:A protuberance of the earth's crustal shell, with an area of several million square miles and sufficient elevation so that much of it above sea level.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:大陆
Translation:地壳表面的突起，具有面积数百万平方英里，而且具备足够的海拔使之高于海平面。

Code:12060
English Term:continental climate
Definition:A climate characterized by hot summers, cold winters, and little rainfall, typical of the interior of a continent.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:大陆型气候
Translation:以炎热的夏季、寒冷的冬季、较少的降雨的气候特征，是大陆内部的典型气候。

Code:1757
English Term:continental shelf
Definition:The gently sloping seabed of the shallow water nearest to a continent, covering about 45 miles from the shore and deepening over the sloping sea floor to an average depth of 400 ft. It continues until it reaches the continental slope. The continental shelf contains most of the important fishing grounds and a range of resources, including gas and oil, sand and gravel. However, the shelf is, in general, a structural extension of the continent, and so may also be a source of minerals found in that region, such as tin, gold and platinum.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:大陆架
Translation:最接近大陆逐渐倾斜的浅水海床，包括从海岸45米到平均深400英尺的倾斜海底。 一直延续到大陆坡。 大陆架包括了最重要的渔场和某一范围的资源，包括天然气和石油，沙子和沙砾。 然而，一般而言，大陆架是大陆结构的延伸，因而在那个区域中可以发现例如锡、金和铂等矿物资源。

Code:10778
English Term:continuing education
Definition:Various forms, methods, and processes of formal and informal education for the continued learning of all ages and categories of the general public. Oriented toward the continued learning/developmental processes of the individual throughout life.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:持续教育
Translation: 以一个人终生的持续学习或发展过程为目的，为各年龄各阶层民众的持续性学习而提供的不同形式、方法、过程，正式或非正式的教育。。

Code:1759
English Term:continuous load
Definition:The amount or quantity of polluting material found in a transporting agent that flows at a steady rate, in contrast to a sudden or dramatic influx.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term:连续性负荷
Translation:指污染物于传输介质中以稳定速率流动的数量或质量，与突然或剧烈流入相反。

Code:1761
English Term:contour farming
Definition:The performing of cultivations along lines connecting points of equal elevation so reducing the loss of top soil by erosion, increasing the capacity of the soil to retain water and reducing the pollution of water by soil.&#10;(Source: ALLa)
Chinese Term:等高耕作
Translation:沿着相同海拔高度的点连线耕作，这样可以降低表层土壤的侵蚀，提高土壤的保水能力，同时降低土壤造成的水体污染。

Code:1762
English Term:contract
Definition:An agreement between two or more persons which creates an obligation to do or not to do a particular thing. Its essential are competent parties, subject matter, a legal consideration, mutuality of agreement, and mutuality of obligation.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:契约
Translation:两人或多人之间的一种协定，因而产生做或不做某件特定事情的责任。其要点包括称职的伙伴、主要问题、法律考量、协定的相互关系以及责任的相互关系。

Code:1763
English Term:contract cleaner
Definition:A commercial service provider, usually bound by a written agreement, responsible for the removal of dirt, litter or other unsightly materials from any property.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:清洁公司
Translation:一种商业服务提供者，通常签订协议并负责清除各种财产上的污垢、垃圾和其它不雅观的物质。

Code:1774
English Term:control measure
Chinese Term:控制方法


Code:1769
English Term:controlled burning
Definition:The planned use of carefully controlled fire to accomplish predetermined management goals. The burn is set under a combination of weather, fuel moisture, soil moisture, and fuel arrangement conditions that allow the management objectives to be attained, and yet confine the fire to the planned area.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:受控燃烧
Translation:有计划地使用谨慎可控火焰，以达到预期的管理目标。这种燃烧是根据以下条件综合决定的：天气、燃料湿度、土壤湿度、允许管理目标达成的燃料分配情况，以及在计划地区对火焰的控制。

Code:1772
English Term:controlled hunting zone
Definition:An administered geographic area in which the pursuit, capture and killing of wild animals for food or sport, is allowed, often with certain restrictions or regulations.&#10;(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term:管制狩猎区
Translation:一个受管辖的地理区域，该区域允许在一定限制或规则下以追踪、捕获野生动物为食物或运动。

Code:1773
English Term:controlling authority
Definition:The power of a person or an organized assemblage of persons to manage, direct, superintend, restrict, regulate, govern, administer or oversee.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:控制权
Translation:个人或有组织的群体所拥有的管理、指导、监督、限制、控制、统治、掌管或监视的权力。

Code:1775
English Term:conurbation
Definition:1) A large densely populated urban sprawl formed by the growth and coalescence of individual towns or cities.&#10;2) Large area covered with buildings (houses or factories or public building, etc.)&#10;3) A large area occupied by urban development, which may contain isolated rural areas, and formed by the merging together of expanding towns that formerly were separate.&#10;(Source: CED / PHC / ALL)
Chinese Term:都会
Translation:（1）由数个独立乡镇或城市发展联合而形成的人口密集的大都市。&#10;（2）被建筑物（如房屋、工厂或公共建筑等）所占据的广大区域。&#10;（3）由都市发展所形成的大都会区，可能包含孤立的乡镇地区，由原本不相连的扩张城镇合并而形成。

Code:13200
English Term:convenience food
Definition:Food so prepared and presented as to be easily and quickly ready for consumption.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:方便食品
Translation:一种易于且可快速食用的食品。

Code:1776
English Term:convention
Definition:International agreement on a specific topic.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:公约
Translation:关于一个特定主题的国际协议。

Code:1777
English Term:conventional energy
Definition:Power provided by traditional means such as coal, wood, gas, etc., as opposed to alternative energy sources such as solar power, tidal power, wind power, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:传统能源
Translation:通过传统方式（如煤、木材、瓦斯等）提供的能源，相对于可替代能源而言，如太阳能、海潮发电、风力发电等。

Code:1781
English Term:cooling
Definition:Setting aside a highly radioactive material until the radioactivity has diminished to a desired level.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:冷却
Translation:将高辐射物质置放至其辐射强度降低到某一期望程度。

Code:1782
English Term:cooling oil
Definition:Oil used as a cooling agent, either with forced circulation or with natural circulation.&#10;(Source: ECHO2a)
Chinese Term:冷却油
Translation:用作冷却剂的油，通过强制循环或用自然循环进行冷却。

Code:1784
English Term:cooling tower
Definition:A device that aids in heat removal from water used as a coolant in electric power generating plants.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:冷却塔
Translation:一种有助于散热降温的装置。在发电厂里通常用水作为冷却剂。

Code:1786
English Term:cooling water
Definition:Water used to make something less hot, such as the irradiated elements from a nuclear reactor or the engine of a machine.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:冷却水
Translation:用于冷却物体（如核能反应器的辐射源或机器引擎）的水。。

Code:1787
English Term:co-operation
Chinese Term:合作

Code:13142
English Term:co-operation policy
Definition:Political course of action aiming at establishing trade agreements among the states.&#10;(Source: NDGIUR)
Chinese Term:合作政策
Translation:以制定各国之间贸易协定为目标的政治方针。

Code:1788
English Term:co-operation principle
Chinese Term:合作原则


Code:14935
English Term:co-ordinate system
Definition:A reference system used to measure horizontal and vertical distances on a planimetric map. A coordinate system is usually defined by a map projection, a spheroid of reference, a datum, one or more standard parallels, a central meridian, and possible shifts in the x- and y-directions to locate x, y positions of point, line, and area features. A common coordinate system is used to spatially register geographic data for the same area.&#10;(Source: ESRI)
Chinese Term:坐标系统
Translation:在平面图上用来测量水平和垂直距离的参考系统。一个坐标系统的定义通常由地图投影、参考之球状体、资料、一条或多条标准平行线、一条中央子午线以及用于确定点、线和的x、y坐标在x和y轴方向的平移位置所。一般的坐标系统用于记录相同区域的空间地理资料。

Code:1791
English Term:co-ordination
Chinese Term:协调

Code:1792
English Term:copper
Definition:A chemical element; one of the most important nonferrous metals; a ductile and malleable metal found in various ores and used in industry, engineering, and the arts in both pure and alloyed form.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:铜
Translation:一种化学元素；为最重要的非铁金属之一；是具有延性和展性的金属，可在各种的矿物中发现，且以纯物质和合金的形式应用于工业、工程和工艺品中。

Code:1793
English Term:coppice
Definition:A growth of small trees that are repeatedly cut down at short intervals; the new shoots are produced by the old stumps.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:定期轮伐矮林
Translation:在短期内被重覆砍伐的小型树种栽种区；新的幼芽从原有的残枝生长出来。

Code:10711
English Term:coppice with standards
Definition:A traditional system of woodland management whereby timber trees are grown above a coppiced woodland. It is used in particular as a method of exploiting oakwoods, in which all the trees except a rather open network of tall, well-formed oaks - the standards at about fifty per hectare - are felled, leaving plenty of space for hazels and other underwood to grow and be coppiced at intervals of ten to fifteen years.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:有保残木的矮林
Translation:林地管理的统系统，其中可用作木材的树木生长在矮林上。特别可用作采伐橡树林的方法：除了相当开阔而网状分布的良构的高橡木（每公顷大约50棵树木）外，所有的树都被砍倒，留下大量空间给榛树和其他的矮树生长，以便以10到15年的时间间隔形成矮林。

Code:1794
English Term:coral
Definition:The skeleton of certain solitary and colonial anthozoan coelenterates; composed chiefly of calcium carbonate.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:珊瑚
Translation:某些单一或群体珊瑚虫腔肠动物的骨骼；主要由碳酸钙组成。

Code:1796
English Term:coral reef
Definition:Coral reefs have been built up from the skeletons of reef-building coral a small primitive marine animal, and other marine animals and algae over thousands of years. They occur in clear, shallow and sunlit seas. Coral reefs are one of the most productive and diverse ecosystems and are estimated to yield about 12% of the world's fish catch. They are very vulnerable to any change in their environment, especially pollution, because it makes the water opaque. They must have light in order that photosyntesis by the algae can take place. Like trees, corals reflect the environmental conditions in which they grow, indicating marine pollution, sea-surface temperature and other aquatic conditions.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:珊瑚礁
Translation:珊瑚礁由一种小的原始海生动物礁珊瑚的骨骼和其他海生动物及藻类历经几千年而形成。它们出现在清澈而有阳光照射的浅海里。珊瑚礁是最具生产力和种类最繁富的生态系统之一；据估计，全世界的鱼获量有百分之十二来自珊瑚礁。它们非常容易受到环境中任何变化的伤害，尤其是污染，因为污染会使得水体变成不透明。它们必须有光，藻类的光合作用才能进行。像树木一样，珊瑚反映了它们生长环境的状况，显示了海洋污染、海面温度和其他水体的状况。

Code:10160
English Term:coral reef lagoon
Definition:A coastal stretch of shallow saltwater virtually cut off from the open sea by a coral reef.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:珊瑚礁泻湖
Translation:被珊瑚礁从开阔的海洋中隔开的、延伸到海岸边的浅海。

Code:1799
English Term:core meltdown
Definition:An accidental overheating of the part of the nuclear reactor where fission takes place, causing fuel elements and other parts of the reactor to melt, potentially leading to catastrophic consequences in which dangerous levels of radioactive materials would be released into the environment.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Chinese Term:核溶解
Translation:部分产生原子分裂的核能反应器意外过热，造成燃料元素和其他部分反应器熔解，可能造成危险性放射物质溢散至环境中的灾难性后果。

Code:1800
English Term:cork
Definition:The thick light porous outer bark of the cork oak, used widely as an insulator and for stoppers for bottles, casks, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:软木塞
Translation:轻质多孔的厚栎木树皮，被广泛用作绝缘体、瓶塞和桶塞等。

Code:1807
English Term:corridor
Definition:A physical linkage, connecting two areas of habitat and differing from the habitat on either side. Corridors are used by organisms to move around without having to leave the preferred habitat.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:廊道
Translation:物理连接两个不同栖息地且不同于这两栖息地的地带。有机体利用廊道在附近进出而无需离开喜爱的栖息地。

Code:1808
English Term:corrosion
Definition:A process in which a solid, especially a metal, is eaten away and changed by a chemical action.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:腐蚀
Translation:固体（特别是金属）受侵蚀以及因化学作用而改变的过程。

Code:1809
English Term:corrosion inhibitor
Definition:A chemical agent which slows down or prohibits a corrosion reaction.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:腐蚀抑制剂
Translation:一种可以防止或延缓腐蚀反应的化学试剂。

Code:1813
English Term:cosmetic industry
Definition:Industry for the production of substances for improving the appearance of the body.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:化妆品产业
Translation:生产制造用于改善人体外貌的物质的工业。

Code:1814
English Term:cosmic radiation
Definition:Radiations consisting of atomic nuclei, especially protons, of very high energy that reach the earth from outer space. Some cosmic radiations are very energetic and are able to penetrate a mile or more into the Earth.&#10;(Source: CED / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:宇宙辐射
Translation:来自外太空而具有非常高能量的、由原子核-特别是质子所组成的辐射。有些宇宙辐射具有极高的能量，可以穿透地球超过一英里深。

Code:1824
English Term:cost
Definition: In economics, the value of the factors of production used by a firm in producing or distributing goods and services or engaging in both activities.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term:成本
Translation:经济学上，指公司在生产或分配货物和服务、或双方面活动时，所使用生产因子的价值。

Code:1820
English Term:cost increase
Definition: The augmentation or rise in the amount of money incurred or asked for in the exchange of goods and services.&#10;(Source: ISEP / EFP)
Chinese Term:成本增加
Translation:在货物及服务交易中，引发资金总额的上升或增加。

Code:1822
English Term:cost recovery basis
Definition: A standard used to provide reimbursement to individuals or organizations for any incurred expense or provided service.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:成本回收基础
Translation:为个人或组织的任何支出提供偿还或服务的一种标准。

Code:1823
English Term:cost reduction
Definition: The lessening or lowering in the amount of money incurred or asked for in the exchange of goods and services.&#10;(Source: ISEP / EFP)
Chinese Term:成本降低
Translation:在货物及服务交易中，引发资金总额的下降或减少。

Code:1817
English Term:cost-benefit
Definition: Relation between costs of a certain activity and its benefits to a certain community.
Chinese Term:成本效益
Translation:特定组织进行某一特定活动时，所需成本和收益之间的关系。

Code:1818
English Term:cost-benefit analysis
Definition: The attempt to assess, compare and frequently justify the total price or loss represented by a certain activity or expenditure with the advantage or service it provides.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:成本效益分析
Translation:对某一特定商业活动，或提供利益或服务的费用,试图去评估、比较和频繁地调整总价或损失。

Code:1827
English Term:cotton
Definition: The most economical natural fiber, obtained from plants of the genus Gossypium, used in making fabrics, cordage, and padding and for producing artificial fibers and cellulose.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:棉花
Translation:最经济的天然纤维，可以从棉种植物中获得，用来制造编织品、绳索、填料、人造纤维和纤维素。

Code:10895
English Term:country lodge
Definition: A small house or a hut located in the countryside.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term:乡村小屋
Translation:位于乡村的房子或小屋。

Code:1837
English Term:county
Definition: An area comprising more than one city and whose boundaries have been designed according to some biological, political, administrative, economic, demographic criteria.&#10;(Source: LANDYa)
Chinese Term:郡/县
Translation:由一个以上的城市所组成的区域，其边界是根据生态、政治、行政、经济与人口统计等规范而设计的。

Code:11594
English Term:court
Definition: An organ of the government, belonging to the judicial department, whose function is the application of the laws to controversies brought before it and the public administration of justice. The presence of a sufficient number of the members of such a body regularly convened in an authorized place at an appointed time, engaged in the full and regular performance of its functions. A body in the government to which the administration of justice is delegated. A body organized to administer justice, and including both judge and jury. An incorporeal, political being, composed of one or more judges, who sit at fixed times and places, attended by proper officers, pursuant to lawful authority, for the administration of justice. An organized body with defined powers, meeting at certain times and places for the hearing and decision of causes and other matters brought before it, and aided in this, its proper business, by its proper officers, attorneys and counsel to present and manage the business, clerks to record and attest its acts and decisions, and ministerial officers to execute its commands, and secure due order in its proceedings.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:法院
Translation:一个属于司法部门并具备有公开监督特性的政府机构，其功能是利用法律诉讼来维护正义。在特定时间内，一定数量的成员聚集在一个被授权的地方发挥他们的功能去处理经常性的事务。政府成员担任管理者，并由一群人组成陪审团共同担任司法审判的执行。陪审团由一人或多人组成，在固定时间地点在法律的授权下参与审判。具有确定权力的组织化团体在特定时间与地点举行会议，以聆听并决定事情起因与其他相关事情。

Code:1842
English Term:court of justice
Definition: A tribunal having jurisdiction of appeal and review, including the ability to overturn decisions of lower courts or courts of first instance.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:司法法院
Translation:对上诉和复审案件拥有裁判权的法庭，可以推翻下级法院或一审的判决。

Code:11571
English Term:Court of Justice of the European Communities
Definition: Institution set up under Treaty of Rome to ensure that in interpretation and application of the Treaty the law is observed. It consists of judges from each member state, appointed for 6-year periods, assisted by three Advocates General. It sits in Luxembourg, expressing itself in judgements when called upon to do so in proceedings initiated by member states, institutions of the EC and natural or legal persons. Procedures are generally inquisitorial.&#10;(Source: CURZON)
Chinese Term:欧盟法院
Translation:依据罗马条约所设置的机构，在解释和应用条约时遵守法律。它由每个会员国的法官所组成，每六年委派一次，由三个总检察长帮助履行职责。 欧盟法院位于卢森堡公国，当欧盟机构与自然人或法人等成员国成员发生诉讼争端时可请它执行裁决。

Code:10142
English Term:cove
Definition: 1) A deep recess hollow, or nook in a cliff or steep mountainside, or a small, straight valley extending into a mountain or down a mountainside.&#10;2) A valley or portion of lowland that penetrates into a plateau or mountain front.&#10;(Source: BJGEO / WHIT)
Chinese Term:山凹
Translation:1）在悬崖或峭壁边上的深凹处，或延伸入山中或山边的小而直的山谷。&#10;2）深入高原或山表的峡谷或部分低地。

Code:1846
English Term:covering
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:覆盖物
Translation:无需定义

Code:1850
English Term:craft
Definition: An occupation or trade requiring manual dexterity or skilled artistry.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:手工艺
Translation:需要具有灵活且熟练手艺的行业。

Code:14651
English Term:craft industry
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:手工艺产业
Translation:无需定义。

Code:13177
English Term:credit
Definition: The financial facility or system by which goods and services are provided in return for deferred, instead of immediate, payment.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:信用
Translation:为货物和服务提供延期付款，而不是直接付款的金融设施或系统。

Code:1854
English Term:credit assistance
Definition: The help and support from banks and other financial institutions in providing money or goods without requiring present payment.&#10;(Source: ISEP / OED)
Chinese Term:信用支持
Translation:银行和其他金融机构针对货币或货物无须现付所提供的协助和支持。

Code:13248
English Term:credit policy
Definition: An official course of action adopted by a business, financial institution or state to regulate, restrict or increase deferred payment arrangements for goods, services or money.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:信贷政策
Translation:企业、金融机构或政府规范、限制和增加货物、服务或货币的延期付款的官方措施。

Code:10152
English Term:creek
Definition: A narrow inlet or bay, especially of the sea.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:小湾
Translation:窄小的入口或湾区，特别是指海湾。

Code:11540
English Term:crime
Definition: Any act done in violation of those duties which an individual owes to the community, and for the breach of which the law has provided that the offender shall make satisfaction to the public.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:罪行
Translation:属于某一团体的个体违反其责任的任何行为；法律已明订，凡侵害他人权利的罪犯必须对公众做出补偿。

Code:1862
English Term:criminal law
Definition: That body of the law that deals with conduct considered so harmful to society as a whole that it is prohibited by statute, prosecuted and punished by the government.&#10;(Source: DUHA)
Chinese Term:刑法
Translation:处理对整个社会有较大损害作用的行为的法律主体，这种行为是法令禁止并应被政府起诉和惩罚的。

Code:11549
English Term:criminal law procedure
Definition: The rules of law governing the procedure by which crimes are investigated, prosecuted, adjudicated, and punish.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:刑事程序
Translation:对犯罪行为进行调查、起诉、判决和惩罚的法律程序执行规则。

Code:13268
English Term:criminal liability
Chinese Term:刑事责任


Code:1860
English Term:criminality
Definition: A violation of the law, punishable by the State in criminal proceedings.&#10;(Source: WEBSTEa)
Chinese Term:犯罪行为
Translation:违反法律的行为，由政府通过刑事诉讼程序加以惩罚。

Code:10107
English Term:crisis management
Definition: The technique, practice or science of handling or controlling situations of acute difficulty, danger or instability; or the total of measures taken to provide a solution for political, economic, environmental or other similar dangers and conflicts.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:危机管理
Translation:处理或控制极端困难、危险或不稳定状态的技术、执行或科学；或为政治、经济环境或其他类似的危机和冲突提供解决所采取的整体性方案。

Code:1864
English Term:critical level
Definition: General term referring to the concentration limit beyond which a substance can cause dangerous effects to living organisms.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:临界浓度
Translation:浓度限值，超过此限值后物质会对生物体造成危险。

Code:1865
English Term:critical load
Definition: The maximum load that a given system can tolerate before failing.&#10;(Source: GRAHAWa)
Chinese Term:临界负荷
Translation:特定系统在衰退前可以承受的最大负荷。

Code:1870
English Term:crocodile
Definition: Any large tropical reptile of the family Crocodylidae: order Crocodylia. They have a broad head, tapering snout, massive jaws, and a thick outer covering of bony plates.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:鳄鱼
Translation:属于鳄目中鳄科的热带爬虫类动物，具有宽的头部、尖细的嘴部、粗大的下颚以及覆盖在骨板外厚重的外皮。

Code:13209
English Term:crop production
Definition:The act or process of yielding produce from farmland, for livestock or human consumption.&#10;(Source: RHW / AGP)
Chinese Term:农作物生产
Translation:为家畜或人类需求而从事生产农产品的行为或过程。

Code:1874
English Term:crop protection
Definition:The problem of crop protection has changed dramatically since 1945. There is now a whole arsenal of chemicals with which to combat agricultural pests and diseases, but this development has itself many drawbacks. Such sophisticated techniques are available only to a minority of farmers; in most parts of the world the standard of crop protection remains abysmally low. In addition, modern crop protection methods have been criticized for relying too heavily on chemical control. Biological controls, both natural and contrived, have been neglected. In some cases involving misuse of agricultural chemicals, crops must be protected from the very measures intended for their protection. Meanwhile previously localized pests and diseases continue to spread worldwide.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:农作物保护
Translation:自从1945年以来，农作物保护问题发生了巨大的变化。现在我们有许多化学试剂用以对付农作物害虫和疾病，但这种发展本身也存在着许多不足。例如，成熟的技术仅能被少数农民所利用；在世界范围内，农作物保护的标准仍然很低。此外，现代的农作物保护措施也因为过多依赖化学手段控制而受到指责。生物手段控制，无论是自然的还是人工的都被人们所忽略。在误用农用化学试剂的情况下，需要采用适当的方法来包括农作物。与此同时，先前存在的重害病仍在世界范围内传播。

Code:1875
English Term:crop rotation
Definition:An agricultural technique in which, season after season, each field is sown with crop plants in a regular rotation, each crop being repeated at intervals of several years. Crop rotation minimizes the risks of depleting the soil of particular nutrients. In rotation systems, a grain crop is often grown the first year, followed by a leafy-vegetable crop in the second year, and a pasture crop in the third. The last usually contains legumes; such plants can restore nitrogen to the soil. Notwithstanding, high yields tend to depend upon the continued addition of chemical fertilizers to the soil.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:轮作
Translation:一种农业技术。在各季节间，每块土地都会被有规律的播种和种植农作物，每种农作物都会在间隔几年后被重复种植。轮作可以将土壤特殊养分被耗尽的危险性降到最低。在轮作系统中，榖类作物一般在第一年种植，接着的第二年是多叶蔬菜作物，第三年是放牧作物，最后是豆类作物，因为这类作物可以恢复土壤中的氮肥。 尽管如此，高产量向土壤中连续投加额外的化学肥料。

Code:11186
English Term:crop treatment
Definition:Use of chemicals in order to avoid damage of crops by insects or weeds.&#10;(Source: WRIGHTa)
Chinese Term:农作物防治
Translation:用化学物质防止农作物被害虫和杂草所伤害。

Code:1877
English Term:crop waste
Definition:Any unusable portion of plant matter left in a field after harvest.&#10;(Source: CNI)
Chinese Term:农作废弃物
Translation:收割后弃于田地间、没有任何使用价值的农作物部分。

Code:1880
English Term:crossing place
Definition:A place, often shown by markings, lights, or poles, where a street, railway, etc. may be crossed.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:穿越地带
Translation:可穿越街道、铁路的地带，通常以标志、灯光或旗杆进行标示。

Code:1881
English Term:crossing place for animals
Definition:Bridges and tunnels provided for animals for crossing roads and railways. Railway and road infrastructures represent an hindrance to wildlife migration.&#10;(Source: DOBRIS)
Chinese Term:动物穿越地带
Translation:为动物穿越道路或铁轨所提供的桥梁或隧道；道路或铁轨的建设野生生物迁移的阻碍。

Code:1885
English Term:crude oil
Definition:A comparatively volatile liquid bitumen composed principally of hydrocarbon, with traces of sulphur, nitrogen or oxygen compounds; can be removed from the earth in a liquid state.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:原油
Translation:一种具有较大挥发性的液态沥青，其基本组成是碳氢化合物，还含有少量的硫、氮和氧化物，可以在地下以液态的形式被移除。

Code:1888
English Term:cruising
Definition:Travelling by sea in a liner for pleasure, usually calling at a number of ports.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:巡航
Translation:为娱乐乘坐轮班在海上旅行，通常在许多港口有此项服务的报名处。

Code:1889
English Term:crustacean
Definition:A class of arthropod animals having jointed feet and mandibles, two pairs of antennae, and segmented, chitin-encased bodies.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:甲壳纲动物
Translation:节肢动物的一纲，具有通过关节连接的脚与下颚、两对触须、以及分节的几丁质躯体。

Code:1890
English Term:cryptogam
Definition:A large group of plants, comprising the Thallophyta, Bryophyta and Pteridophyta, the last of which are cryptogams.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:隐花植物
Translation:在包括同节植物、藓苔植物与蕨类植物在内的大群植物类别中，最后一类为隐花植物。

Code:1891
English Term:crystallisation
Definition:The formation of crystalline substances from solutions or melts.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:结晶
Translation:从溶液或熔融态液体所形成的结晶状物质。

Code:1892
English Term:crystallography
Definition:The branch of science that deals with the geometric description of crystals and their internal arrangement.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:结晶学
Translation:有关晶体几何描述及其内部结构的科学分支。

Code:1898
English Term:cultivated plant
Definition:Plants specially bred or improved by cultivation.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:栽培植物
Translation:通过栽培进行特殊培养或改良的植物。

Code:1899
English Term:cultivation
Definition:The practice of growing and nurturing plants outside of their wild habitat (i.e., in gardens, nurseries, arboreta).&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:栽培
Translation:在非野生环境下（如花园、苗圃和植物园）生长和培育植物的方法。

Code:1902
English Term:cultivation method
Definition:Any procedure or approach used to prepare land or soil for the growth of new crops, or to promote or improve the growth of existing crops.&#10;(Source: RHW / AGP)
Chinese Term:耕作方法
Translation:一种过程或方法，用于处理农田或土壤使其适合种植新的农作物，,或促进和改善提高其原有农作物的生长。

Code:13164
English Term:cultivation of agricultural land
Definition:Cultivation of land for the production of plant crops. Agricultural land may be employed in an unimproved state with few, if any, management inputs (extensive rangeland), or in an intensively managed state with annual inputs of fertilizer, pest, control treatments, and tillage.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:农地耕作
Translation:为了农作物生产的土地耕作。农业土地可能以未改良的状态下、几乎不加管理的使用，或者可能以一种每年施肥、防制病虫、控制处理以及耕种等高度管理的状态被使用。

Code:13207
English Term:cultivation system
Definition:Any overall structure or set-up used to organize the activity of preparing land or soil for the growth of new crops, or the activity of promoting or improving the growth of existing crops.&#10;(Source: RHW / AGP)
Chinese Term:耕作系统
Translation:一种全面的组织结构，用于组织、处理农田或土壤使其适合种植新的农作物，或促进、改善、提高其原有农作物的生长。

Code:1909
English Term:cultural development
Definition:The process whereby the capabilities or possibilities inherent in a people's beliefs, customs, artistic activity and knowledge are brought out or made more effective.&#10;(Source: PPP / RHW)
Chinese Term:文化发展
Translation:人们的信仰、风俗、艺术活动和知识中固有的能力或可能性被彰显或是使之更加有效的过程。

Code:1911
English Term:cultural facility
Definition:Any building or structure used for programs or activities involving the arts or other endeavors that encourage refinement or development of the mind.&#10;(Source: WCD / OED)
Chinese Term:文化设施
Translation:用于设计艺术或其它足以鼓励提升或发展心智等计划或活动的任何结构或建筑。

Code:5478
English Term:cultural goods
Chinese Term:文物


Code:1912
English Term:cultural heritage
Definition:The inherited body of beliefs, customs, artistic activity and knowledge that has been transmitted by ancestors.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:文化遗产
Translation:祖先遗留下来的、承继的信仰、传统、艺术活动以及知识。

Code:1915
English Term:cultural indicator
Definition:Cultural indicators give information about societies, which may be interesting even when one is not trying to evaluate the cultures of these societies from any normative point of view. Cultural indicators may also have an evaluative purpose involving explicit or implicit normative criteria.&#10;(Source: UNESCO)
Chinese Term:文化指标
Translation:文化指标提供社会相关信息，其内容可能相当有趣，即便人们并未尝试以标准化的观点来评价这些社会文化。文化指标也可能有其评价的目的，包括显式或隐式的标准。

Code:1917
English Term:cultural policy
Chinese Term:文化政策


Code:1921
English Term:culture (society)
Definition:The body of customary beliefs, social forms, and material traits constituting a distinct complex of tradition of a racial or social group.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:文化（社会）
Translation:习惯信仰、社会形式和物质特征的主体组成的一个种族或社会群体所特有的一套传统。

Code:1926
English Term:curriculum
Definition:The aggregate of courses of study provided in a particular school, college, university, adult education program, technical institution or some other educational program.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:课程
Translation:在特定的学校、学院、大学、成人教育课程、技术机构或其他教育计划中的整合性课程。


Code:1928
English Term:custom and usage
Definition:A group pattern of habitual activity usually transmitted across generations and, in some instances, having the force of law.&#10;(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term:风俗习惯
Translation:一种世代相传的习惯性活动，在某种程度上具有类似法律的效力。

Code:1929
English Term:customs
Definition:Duties charged upon commodities on their importation into, or exportation out of, a country.
Chinese Term:关税
Translation:一国对商品进出口所征收的费用。

Code:13270
English Term:customs regulation
Definition:A body of rules or orders generally issued by the executive authority of a government to establish and direct the taxes, duties or tariffs payable upon merchandise exported or imported.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:海关条例
Translation:通常由政府行政主管机关颁布，并用以建立和指导税收或进出口商品关税支付的一系列法规或命令的主体。

Code:13241
English Term:customs tariff
Definition:An official list or schedule setting forth the duties imposed by a government on imported or exported goods.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:关税表
Translation:指政府针对进出口商品进行征税所设立的官方清单或计划表。

Code:1930
English Term:cutting (forestry)
Definition:The act or process of felling or uprooting standing trees, in order to produce timber products.&#10;(Source: TIM)
Chinese Term:森林砍伐
Translation:一种为了生产木材产品而砍伐、根绝未伐树木的行为或过程。

Code:13572
English Term:cutting (vegetative propagation)
Definition:In plant propagation, young shoots or stems removed for the purpose of growing new plants by vegetatively rooting the cuttings.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:插条（营养繁殖，无性繁殖）
Translation:在植物的繁殖中，将嫩芽或嫩茎切割下来种植成新的植物。

Code:1931
English Term:cyanate
Definition:A salt or ester of cyanic acid containing the radical OCN.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:氰酸盐
Translation:含有氰氧基的氰酸的盐或酯类。

Code:1933
English Term:cyanide
Definition:Any of a group of compounds containing the CN group and derived from hydrogen cyanide, HCN.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:氰化物
Translation:任何含有氰(CN)基的化合物和氰酸(HCN)的衍生物。

Code:10860
English Term:cycle path
Definition:Part of the road or a special path for the use of people riding bicycles.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:自行车道
Translation:道路的一部分，或特别为自行车使用者铺设的车道。

Code:1941
English Term:cyclone
Definition:A storm characterized by the converging and rising giratory movement of the wind around a zone of low pressure (the eye) towards which it is violently pulled from a zone of high pressure. Its circulation is counterclockwise round the center in the northern hemisphere, clockwise in the southern hemisphere.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:气旋
Translation:一种暴风雨，其特征是风围绕着一个低压区（风眼）而会聚、上升的旋转运动，从高压区猛烈地冲向低压区。它在北半球逆时针旋转，而在南半球顺时针旋转。

Code:1945
English Term:cytology
Definition:A branch of the biological sciences which deals with the structure, behaviour, growth, and reproduction of cells and the functions and chemistry of cell components.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:细胞学
Translation:研究细胞的结构、行为、生长和繁殖，以及细胞成分的功能和化学性质的生物科学分支。

Code:1946
English Term:cytotoxicity
Definition:The degree to which an agent possesses a specific destructive action on certain cells or the possession of such action; used particularly in referring to the lysis of cells by immune phenomena and to antineoplastic drugs that selectively kill dividing cells.
Chinese Term:细胞毒性
Translation:试剂对某些特定细胞具有的破坏性，尤指免疫现象中细胞的溶解以及防癌药剂的选择性杀死细胞。

Code:1950
English Term:dairy farm
Definition:A commercial establishment for processing or selling milk and milk products.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:乳品农场
Translation:生产或销售牛奶和牛奶制品的商业产业。

Code:1951
English Term:dairy industry
Definition:Production of food made from milk or milk products.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:乳品加工业
Translation:生产奶制品的食品工业。

Code:1952
English Term:dairy product
Definition:Products derived from milk, such as butter, cheese, lactose, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:乳制品
Translation:由牛奶制成的产品，如奶油、乳酪和乳糖等。

Code:1955
English Term:dam
Definition:Structure constructed across a watercourse or stream channel.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:水坝
Translation:横越水道或溪流水道的建筑。

Code:12213
English Term:dam draining
Definition:The drawing of water from a reservoir by means of draining pipes located at the bottom of the basin and controlled by a system of sluices which ensure, if necessary, the emptying of the basin in a given period of time in respect of downstream conditions.&#10;(Source: MANCOS)
Chinese Term:水坝排水
Translation:利用水库底部的排水管进行排水，同时以水闸进行控制，以保证可根据下游情况需要在一定时间内将水库清空。

Code:1956
English Term:damage
Definition:An injury or harm impairing the function or condition of a person or thing.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:损害
Translation:人或物的状态或功能受到伤害或损伤。

Code:12898
English Term:damage assessment
Definition:The evaluation or determination of losses, harm and injuries to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:损害预估
Translation:对个人、财产或环境的损失、危害或伤害的评估或判定。

Code:1958
English Term:damage from military manoeuvres
Definition:Injury or harm resulting from the planned movement of armed forces or from the tactical exercises simulating war operations that is carried out for training and evaluation purposes.&#10;(Source: GT2 / JSS)
Chinese Term:军事调动损害
Translation:军队进行计划性迁移，或为训练与评估而进行的模拟战争战术演练所产生的损害与危害。

Code:12887
English Term:damage insurance
Definition:A commercial product which provides a guarantee against damage to property in return for premiums paid.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term:伤害保险
Translation:一种商业产品，缴纳保险金后会为财产损失提供补偿。

Code:1959
English Term:damage prevention
Definition:The aggregate of approaches and measures to ensure that human action or natural phenomena do not cause damage. It implies the formulation and implementation of long-range policies and programmes to eliminate or prevent the damages caused by disasters.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:损害预防
Translation:为确保人类活动或自然现象不会引起伤害的测量及方法的整合，即以长期性的政策与规划的形成与执行来消除或避免灾难所引起的损害。

Code:12861
English Term:danger analysis
Definition:The process of evaluating the scale and probability of harm caused by any hazard to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: ISEP / DDP)
Chinese Term:威胁分析
Translation:评估个人、财产与环境危害的尺度与可能性的过程。

Code:1969
English Term:dangerous goods
Definition:Goods or products that are full of hazards or risks when used, transported, etc.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:危险货品
Translation:在使用、运输等过程中具有高度危害和风险的货物或产品。


Code:1970
English Term:dangerous goods law
Chinese Term:危险品法规

Code:1971
English Term:dangerous goods regulation
Definition:Rules on the handling of articles or substances capable of posing a significant risk to health, safety, or property, and that ordinarily require special attention when being transported.&#10;(Source: TOLGARa)
Chinese Term:危险品法规
Translation:对健康、安全或财产具有显著风险性，且在运输过程中通常需要被特别关注的商品或物质的管理规则。

Code:12808
English Term:dangerous installation
Definition:Installations whose functioning involves the possibility of major hazards such as chemical plants, nuclear, coal and oil power production plants, etc.&#10;(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term:危险设施
Translation:其功能可能涉及重大危害的设施，如化工厂、核能、煤和石油能源发电厂等。

Code:12819
English Term:dangerous materials transport
Definition:Type of transport regulated by special safety rules.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:危险品运输
Translation:由特殊安全规则管制的运输类型。

Code:1974
English Term:data acquisition
Definition:The act of collecting and gathering individual facts, statistics or other items of information.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:数据收集
Translation:收集个体事实、统计数据或其他信息项的行为。

Code:1975
English Term:data analysis
Definition:The evaluation of digital data, i.e. data represented by a sequence of code characters.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:数据分析
Translation:数字数据的评估，即使用一组编码字符序列表述数据。

Code:1979
English Term:data base
Definition:A computerized compilation of data, facts and records that is organized for convenient access, management and updating.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term:数据库
Translation:运用电脑化的方式编辑数据、事实和记录，并将其组织成可方便存取、管理和更新的格式。

Code:1981
English Term:data carrier
Definition:A medium on which data can be recorded, and which is usually easily transportable, such as cards, tape, paper, or disks.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:数据传输设备
Translation:用于记录数据和易于传送数据的媒体，如磁卡、磁带、纸张和磁盘。

Code:14858
English Term:data centre
Definition:An organization established primarily to acquire, analyze, process, store, retrieve, and disseminate one or more types of data.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:数据中心
Translation:为搜集、分析、处理、储存、检索和传播一种或多种的数据而设立的组织。

Code:1984
English Term:data exchange
Definition:A reciprocal transfer of individual facts, statistics or items of information between two or more parties for the purpose of enhancing knowledge of the participants.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:数据交换
Translation:以加强参与者的知识为目的，在两个或多个团体间互相传递个体事实、统计数据或信息项。

Code:8068
English Term:data on the state of the environment
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:环境状况数据
Translation:无需定义。

Code:1986
English Term:data processing
Definition:Any operation or combination of operations on data, including everything that happens to data from the time they are observed or collected to the time they are destroyed.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:数据处理
Translation:任何对数据的运算或组合运算，包括从观察或收集数据，直到数据被破坏的所有操作。

Code:13276
English Term:data processing law
Chinese Term:数据处理法


Code:13316
English Term:data processing system
Definition:An assembly of computer hardware, firmware and software configured for the purpose of performing various operations on digital information elements with a minimum of human intervention.&#10;(Source: JON)
Chinese Term:数据处理系统
Translation:电脑硬件、固件和软件的集合，以最低的人为干预对数字信息元素进行不同的操作。

Code:1988
English Term:data protection
Definition:Policies, procedures or devices designed to maintain the integrity or security of informational elements in storage or in transmission.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:数据保护
Translation:设计来维护信息储存或传送完整性或安全性的政策、程序或装置。

Code:1989
English Term:data recording technique
Definition:The body of specialized procedures and methods used for the preservation, collocation or registration of individual elements of information.&#10;(Source: RHW / APD)
Chinese Term:数据记录技术
Translation:用来保存、收集或记录个别信息要素的特殊程序或方法的主体。

Code:1992
English Term:dating
Definition:Any of several techniques such as radioactive dating, dendrochronology, or varve dating, for establishing the age of rocks, palaeontological or archaeological specimens, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:定年法
Translation:诸如辐射测龄、树轮年代学或纹泥测龄的一些技术，可以用来推估岩石、古生物学或考古样本的年代。

Code:1996
English Term:DDT
Definition:A persistent organochlorine insecticide, also known as dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, that was introduced in the 1940s and used widely because of its persistence (meaning repeated applications were unnecessary), its low toxicity to mammals and its simplicity and cheapness of manufacture. It became dispersed all over the world and, with other organochlorines, had a disruptive effect on species high in food chains, especially on the breeding success of certain predatory birds. DDT is very stable, relatively insoluble in water, but highly soluble in fats. Health effects on humans are not clear, but it is less toxic than related compounds. It is poisonous to other vertebrates, especially fish, and is stored in the fatty tissue of animals as sublethal amounts of the less toxic DDE. Because of its effects on wildlife its use in most countries is now forbidden or strictly limited.&#10;(Source: MGH / ALL)
Chinese Term:DDT
Translation:难以分解的有机氯杀虫剂，化学名称为二氯二苯基三氯乙烷，因其在环境中的持久性(即不必重覆施用)、对哺乳动物的低毒性和制造容易、花费低，所以在20世纪40年代被引入并广泛使用。 它遍及全世界，和其他有机氯杀虫剂对在食物链上层的物种，特别是对掠食性的鸟类生殖演替产生影响。 DDT非常的稳定，相对不溶于水，但易溶于脂肪中。 对人类健康的影响仍不清楚，但毒性较其他的相关化合物小。 对其他的脊椎动物，特别是鱼类具有毒性，会以毒性较低之二氯二苯化合物型态积存在动物的脂肪组织中。 因其对野生生物的影响，大部份的国家已经禁用或严格限用。

Code:2000
English Term:debt
Definition:Something owed to someone else.&#10;(Source: SCRUZ)
Chinese Term:债务
Translation:欠他人的东西。

Code:2001
English Term:debt service
Definition:The fees or amount of money necessary to pay interest on an outstanding debt, the principal of maturing serial bonds, and the required contributions to an amortization or sinking fund for term bonds.&#10;(Source: EFP)
Chinese Term:债务服务
Translation:对未偿还债务、到期的分期偿付证券、分期偿还所需的物品或偿债基金等，应支付利息的货币总量或费用。

Code:15027
English Term:decantation
Definition:Sizing or classifying particulate matter by suspension in a fluid (liquid or gas), the larger particulates tending to separate by sinking.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:倾析
Translation:借悬浮在流体（液态或气态）中的方法，筛选或分级颗粒物质，其中大的颗粒物因沉降而被分离。

Code:1993
English Term:decay product
Definition:An isotope formed by the radioactive decay of some other isotope. This newly formed isotope possesses physical and chemical properties that are different from those of its parent isotope, and may also be radioactive.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:衰变产物
Translation:由其它同位素经过放射性衰退而形成的同位素。 这些新生成的同位素具有和其母同位素不同的物理、化学性质，一般也具有放射性。

Code:2003
English Term:decentralisation
Definition:Basic organizational leadership concept and process of shifting and delegating power and authority from a higher level to subordinate levels within the administrative/managerial hierarchy in order to promote independence, responsibility, and quicker decision-making in applying or interpreting policies and procedures to the needs of these levels.
Chinese Term:分权化
Translation:为了在应用与执行政策、程序时能符合独立、责任与快速决策的要求。 上级单位可以在行政/管理的分级制度下授予下级单位基本的地方管理权力。

Code:12583
English Term:dechlorination
Definition:Removal of chlorine from a substance.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:脱氯
Translation:从物质中去除氯。

Code:11889
English Term:decibel
Definition:A unit used to express relative difference on power, usually between acoustic or electric signals, equal to ten times the common logarithm of the ratio of the two level.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:分贝
Translation:用来比较在声音信号之间或者电子信号之间相对能量差的单位，等于两者比值取其常用对数的十倍。


Code:2004
English Term:deciduous forest
Definition:The temperate forests comprised of trees that seasonally shed their leaves, located in the east of the USA, in Western Europe from the Alps to Scandinavia, and in the eastern Asia. The hardwood of these forests have been exploited since the 16th century. The trees of deciduous forests usually produce nuts and winged seeds.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:落叶林
Translation:温带森林，由季节性落叶树木组成，位于美东、从阿尔卑斯到斯堪的那维亚半岛的西欧和东亚。这些森林中的硬材从16世纪就开始开采。该森林的树木常产坚果和羽翼状种子。

Code:2005
English Term:deciduous tree
Definition:Tree losing its leaves in autumn and growing new ones in the spring.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:落叶树

Code:13921
English Term:deciduous wood
Chinese Term:落叶木

Code:2006
English Term:decision
Definition:Means the exercise of agency authority at any stage of an undertaking where alterations might be made in the undertaking to modify its impact upon historic and cultural properties.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:决策
Translation:主管机构使一企业在任何阶段做出可能变更的操作方法，以改变企业对历史和文化财产的冲击。

Code:10986
English Term:decision making support
Chinese Term:决策支持


Code:2009
English Term:decision process
Chinese Term:决策程序



Code:14893
English Term:decision-support system
Definition:A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources that analyzes, typically, business data and presents it so that users can make business decisions more easily.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term:决策支持系统
Translation:用以整合人、设备或其他资源的系统，通过分析企业数据并加以呈现，让使用者更容易进行企业决策。

Code:11523
English Term:declaration of public utility
Definition:Administrative Act giving the right to take private property for public use.&#10;(Source: BLACKa)
Chinese Term:公共设施宣言
Translation:授权将私有财产作为公共使用的行政法案。

Code:2014
English Term:decomposition
Definition:The more or less permanent breakdown of a molecule into simpler molecules or atoms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:分解
Translation:分子或多或少地永久性分解成较简单的分子或原子。

Code:2015
English Term:decontamination
Definition:The removing of chemical, biological, or radiological contamination from, or the neutralizing of it on a person, object, or area.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:去污
Translation:去除或中和存在于人体、物体或某区域内的化学性、生物性、或放射性污染。

Code:2020
English Term:decree
Definition:A declaration of the court announcing the legal consequences of the facts found.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:公告
Translation:法院宣布合法调查事实结果的申明。

Code:2022
English Term:deep sea
Definition:Region of open ocean beyond the continental shelf.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term:深海
Translation:在大陆架以下更深处的海洋区域。

Code:2023
English Term:deep sea deposit
Chinese Term:深海矿床


Code:2025
English Term:deep sea fishing
Definition:Fishing in the deepest parts of the sea.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:深海捕鱼
Translation:在海洋最深的区域捕鱼。

Code:14956
English Term:deep sea mining
Definition:The most valuable of the marine mineral resources is petroleum. About 15% of the world's oil is produced offshore, and extraction capabilities are advancing. One of the largest environmental impacts of deep sea mining are discharged sediment plumes which disperse with ocean currents and thus may negatively influence the marine ecosystem. Coal deposits known as extensions of land deposits , are mined under the sea floor in Japan and England.&#10;(Source: PARCOR / ERIB)
Chinese Term:深海采矿
Translation:最有价值的海洋矿物资源是石油。 世界上约有15%的石油产自外海，且提取能力不断进步。深海采矿对环境最大的影响之一是弃置沉积物所产生的烟尘随着洋流而扩散，因此可能对海洋生态产生负面影响。众所周知煤矿是陆上矿藏的延伸，已开采的有日本和英国海底的煤矿。

Code:2024
English Term:deep-sea disposal
Definition:The disposal of solid waste or sludge by carrying the wastes out to sea, usually in a barge, and dumping into deep water.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term:深海丢弃
Translation:将固体废弃物运送到大海丢弃，通常用平底船运输，再倾弃于深海。

Code:2029
English Term:deer
Definition:The common name for 41 species of even-toed ungulates that compose the family Cervidae in the order Artiodactyla; males have antlers.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:鹿
Translation:属于偶蹄目鹿科的41种偶蹄动物的共同名称；雄性具有多叉的茸角。

Code:2031
English Term:defence
Definition:The act or process of protecting citizens or any geographical area by preparing for or by using military means to resist the attack of an enemy.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:防卫
Translation:通过事先准备或运用军事手段以抵抗敌人攻击，保护市民或任何地域所采取的行动或过程。

Code:2035
English Term:defoliation
Definition:1) The drop of foliage from plants caused by herbicides such as Agent Orange, diuron, triazines, all of which interfere with photosynthesis. The use of defoliants, as in Vietnam or in jungle clearance for agriculture, can permanently destroy tropical forests. Once the tree cover is removed, the soil is subjected to erosion and precious nutrients are rapidly leached away.&#10; 2) Destroying (an area of jungle, forest, etc.) as by chemical sprays or incendiary bombs, in order to give enemy troops or guerilla forces no place of concealment.&#10;(Source: PORT / WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:使叶掉落
Translation:1)因使用如橘剂、敌草隆、三氮六环等会干扰光合作用的除草剂而造成叶片掉落。 使用落叶剂，如在越南或在为农耕而清出的丛林空地上，会永远地破坏热带雨林。 一旦移除了树木的遮蔽，土壤就易受侵蚀，而重要的养份会快速流失。 2)为了让敌方军队或游击队无处可藏，而喷洒化学药剂或使用燃烧弹所造成(丛林、森林地等)的破坏。

Code:2036
English Term:deforestation
Definition:The removal of forest and undergrowth to increase the surface of arable land or to use the timber for construction or industrial purposes. Forest and its undergrowth possess a very high water-retaining capacity, inhibiting runoff of rainwater.&#10;(Source: GILP)
Chinese Term:森林砍伐
Translation:为增加耕地面积或提供建筑及工业用材，移除森林及林下面积。森林和林下植被有很强的含水能力，能够防止雨水流失。

Code:2039
English Term:degradability
Definition:The capacity of being decomposed chemically or biologically.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:可降解性
Translation:被化学性或生物性分解的能力。

Code:2040
English Term:degradation
Definition:A type of organic chemical reaction in which a compound is converted into a simpler compound in stages.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term:降解
Translation:逐步将一种化合物转换成较简单化合物的有机化学反应。

Code:2041
English Term:degradation of natural resources
Definition:The result of the cumulative activities of farmers, households, and industries, all trying to improve their socio-economic well being. These activities tend to be counterproductive for several reasons. People may not completely understand the long-term consequences of their activities on the natural resource base. The most important ways in which human activity is interfering with the global ecosystem are: a) fossil fuel burning which may double the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration by the middle of the next century, as well as further increasing the emissions of sulphur and nitrogen very significantly; b) expanding agriculture and forestry and the associated use of fertilizers (nitrogen and phosphorous) are significantly altering the natural circulation of these nutrients; c) increased exploitation of the freshwater system both for irrigation in agriculture and industry and for waste disposal.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:自然资源恶化
Translation:农民、家庭和产业界为了增加其社会经济利益的各种活动所累积的效应。 许多原因使得这些活动导致不良的后果。 人们可能尚不完全明了这些活动对自然资源基础的长期影响。 人类活动干扰地球生态系统的最重要影响方式有：a)石化燃料燃烧可能在下一世纪中期使大气中二氧化碳浓度加倍，且硫和氮排放也将持续大幅增加；b)农业和林业的扩大，及其相关肥料的使用(氮和磷)将严重改变这些营养素在自然界的循环；c)为了农业灌溉、工业及废弃物弃置的需要，所需增加的淡水系统开发。

Code:13236
English Term:degradation of the environment
Definition:The process by which the environment is progressively contaminated, overexploited and destroyed.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:环境恶化
Translation:环境日益污染、过度开发和破坏的过程。

Code:2042
English Term:degradation product
Definition:Those chemicals resulting from partial decomposition or chemical breakdown of substances.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:分解产物
Translation:经过部分分解或化学降解后所得的化学物质。


Code:2044
English Term:degreasing
Definition:1) Removing grease from wool with chemicals. &#10;2) Removing grease from hides or skins in tanning by tumbling them in solvents. &#10;3) Removing grease, oil, or fatty material from a metal surface with fumes from a hot solvent.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:去脂
Translation:1)使用化学药剂以去除羊毛中的油脂。 2)在制革中经由翻滚以去除毛皮的油脂。 3)以热溶剂蒸气从金属表面去除油脂、油、或脂肪物质。

Code:12436
English Term:dehydrated sludge
Definition:Sludge whose water content has been reduced by physical means.&#10;(Source: LEEa)
Chinese Term:脱水污泥
Translation:用物理方法将水份减少后的污泥。

Code:2048
English Term:de-inking
Definition:Series of processes by which various types of printing inks are removed from paper fibre pulp during the pre-processing and recycling of recovered paper products. Particularly necessary where high quality and whiteness of the finished product are required.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:去墨
Translation:回收纸产品的预处理和回收利用所需，将各种类型的印刷墨从纸制产品中去除的过程。 特别是需要获得高质量的洁白产物。

Code:11532
English Term:delegated management
Definition:The process of assigning or transferring authority, decision making or a specific administrative function from one entity to another.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:授权管理
Translation:一个实体将其职权、决策或特定行政功能指派或转移给另一个实体的过程。

Code:2050
English Term:delinquency
Chinese Term:违法


Code:2052
English Term:delta
Definition:A delta is a vast, fan-shaped creation of land, or low-lying plain, formed from successive layers of sediment washed from uplands to the mouth of some rivers, such as the Nile, the Mississippi and the Ganges. The nutrient-rich sediment is deposited by rivers at the point where, or before which, the river flows into the sea. Deltas are formed when rivers supply and deposit sediments more quickly that they can be removed by waves of ocean currents. The importance of deltas was first discovered by prehistoric man, who was attracted to them because of their abundant animal and plant life. Connecting waterways through the deltas later provided natural routes for navigation and trade, and opened up access to the interior. Deltas are highly fertile and often highly populated areas. They would be under serious threat of flooding from any sea-level rise.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:三角洲
Translation:三角洲是广大、扇形的新生土地或低地平原，是从高地冲刷到一些河口的沉积物一层层堆积形成，如尼罗河、密西西比河和恒河。 营养丰富的沉积物被河流堆积在它的入海口。 三角洲的形成是因河流提供的沉积物超过洋流波浪所带走的。 三角洲的重要性最早被史前人类发现，他们被此处丰富的动植物生命所吸引。 后来透过三角洲所连接的水路更提供了航海和贸易的天然路线，并开辟了进入内地的捷径。 三角洲土地肥沃，也常是人口密集地区；尽管它们处于海平面可能上升而被淹没的严重威胁之下。

Code:2053
English Term:demand
Definition:The desire, ability and willingness of an individual to purchase a good or service. The consumer must have the funds or the ability to obtain funds in order to convert the desire into demand. The demand of a buyer for a certain good is a schedule of the quantities of that good which the individual would buy at possible alternative prices at a given moment in time.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term:需求
Translation:个人购买某种货物或服务的渴望、能力、和意愿。 为了将渴望转变成需求，消费者必须具有资金或获得资金的能力。 而消费者对某一特定货物的需求,可视为是一种货物数量变化的时间表，即在一定时期内,个人购买商品价格的变化。

Code:12152
English Term:demesnial water
Definition:A body of water that is owned and maintained by a national governmental body or agency.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:领水
Translation:由国家政府或机关所拥有并维护的水源。

Code:2054
English Term:democracy
Definition:A system of governance in which ultimate authority power is vested in the people and exercised directly by them or by their freely elected agents.&#10;(Source: APS)
Chinese Term:民主制度
Translation:最终权力隶属于人民且由人民直接行使或由他们自由选择的代理人行使权力的一种统治系统。

Code:2055
English Term:demographic development
Definition:Growth in the number of individuals of a population.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term:人口发展
Translation:人口数量上的增加。

Code:2056
English Term:demographic evolution
Definition:The gradual pattern of change in the growth of human populations in a particular region or country, from a rapid increase in the birth and death rates to a leveling off in the growth rate due to reduced fertility and other factors.&#10;(Source: DOE / ANT)
Chinese Term:人口演化
Translation:在特定国家或区域中人口成长的变化趋势，由快速增加的出生率与死亡率到因生育减低与其他因素影响下，成长率趋缓持平的过程。

Code:2060
English Term:demography
Definition:The statistical study of human vital statistics and population dynamics.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:人口统计
Translation:人类出生、死亡的统计资料和人口迁移的统计研究。

Code:2062
English Term:demolition business
Definition:The activity of reducing buildings or other structures to rubble.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:建筑拆解作业
Translation:将房屋或其它结构物破坏并转变成碎石的活动。

Code:2064
English Term:demolition waste
Definition:Masonry or rubble wastes arising from the demolition of buildings or other civil engineering structures.
Chinese Term:建筑拆除废弃物
Translation:因破坏建筑物或其他土木工程结构所产生的砖瓦或碎石废弃物。

Code:2066
English Term:demonstrability
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:可论证性
Translation:无需定义。

Code:2069
English Term:dendrochronology
Definition:The science of dating the age of a tree by studying annual growth rings. It is also employed to interpret previous environments and climatic variations by examining certain kinds of trees. It is based on the theory that the width of the growth ring reflects the amount of rainfall and the temperature of the year in which it was formed.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:树轮年代学
Translation:经由研究树的年轮来计算其年代的科学。 该方法亦应用在某些树种以解释过去的环境和气候变化。 其理论基础为年轮的宽度反映了形成年轮那一年的降雨量和温度。

Code:2070
English Term:dendrometry
Definition:The measuring of the diameter of standing trees from the ground with a dendrometer that can also be used to measure tree heights.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term:测树法
Translation:用测树器从地面测量树径和树高的方法。

Code:2071
English Term:denitrification
Definition:1) The loss of nitrogen from soil by biological or chemical means. It is a gaseous loss, unrelated to loss by physical processes such as through leachates. &#10;2) The breakdown of nitrates by soil bacteria, resulting in the release of free nitrogen. This process takes place under anaerobic conditions, such as are found in water-logged soil, and it reduces soil fertility.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT / ALL)
Chinese Term:脱氮作用
Translation:(1)经由生物处理或化学方式去除土中含的氮。 是一种汽化式的散失，而非经由物理过程如渗漏的流失。 (2)经由土壤中的细菌分解硝酸盐而释放出自由氮。 此种过程常发生于厌氧环境下，如浸泡在水中的土地；会降低土中养份。

Code:2072
English Term:denitrification of waste gas
Definition:Current methods for controlling NOx emissions in motor vehicles include retardation of spark timing, increasing the air/fuel ratio, injecting water into the cylinders, decreasing the compression ratio, and recirculating exhaust gas. For stationary sources, one abatement method is to use a lower NOx producing fuel or to modify the combustion process by injecting steam into the combustion chamber.&#10;(Source: PZ)
Chinese Term:废弃脱氮
Translation:控制机动车辆氮氧化物排放的现行方法，包括火星塞点火的延迟、增加空气/燃料比、向汽缸内注射水分、减少压缩比、和废气再循环。 对固定污染源，一种防制方法是采用较低氮氧化物含量的燃料或向燃烧室注入水蒸气以修改燃烧过程。

Code:11116
English Term:density
Definition:The mass of unit volume of a substance.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term:密度
Translation:某一物质的单位体积质量。

Code:2083
English Term:deposited particulate matter
Chinese Term:沉降的微粒物质


Code:2084
English Term:deposition
Definition:The process by which polluting material is precipitated from the atmosphere and accumulates in ecosystems.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term:沉积作用
Translation:污染物质从大气中沉降，因而堆积于生态系统的过程。

Code:2088
English Term:deregulation
Definition:The removal or relaxation of government control over the economic activities of some commercial entity, industry or economic sector.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:解除管制
Translation:政府对一些商业体、工业、经济部门所进行的经济活动管制，进行放松或解除。

Code:2093
English Term:dermapteran
Chinese Term:革翅目昆虫


Code:2098
English Term:desalination
Definition:Removal of salt, as from water or soil.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:脱盐
Translation:从水或土壤中去除盐分。



Code:2099
English Term:desalination plant
Definition:1) Plants for the extraction of fresh water from saltwater by the removal of salts, usually by distilling.&#10; 2) Parts of the world with severe water shortages are looking to desalination plants to solve their problems. Desalination of water is still nearly four times more expensive than obtaining water from conventional sources. However technology is improving and costs are likely to decrease slightly in the future. There is now more interest in building distillation plants beside electric installations so that the waste heat from power generation can be used to drive the desalination process.&#10;(Source: ALL / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:海水淡化厂
Translation:1)从海水中移除盐份以取得淡水的工厂，通常是透过蒸馏的方法。 2)世界上部分严重决乏淡水的地区期待海水淡化厂可解决其问题。 海水淡化的花费仍比一般的水源约高出四倍。 但未来技术的改良可稍微降低成本。 现在趋向于将海水淡化厂建在电厂的旁边，如此可利用发电的废热来驱动海水淡化的过程。


Code:2103
English Term:desert
Definition:A wide, open, comparatively barren tract of land with few forms of life and little rainfall.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:沙漠
Translation:仅有极少的生物型态与降雨的辽阔而空旷的不毛土地。

Code:12061
English Term:desert climate
Definition:A climate type which is characterized by insufficient moisture to support appreciable plant life; that is, a climate of extreme aridity.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:沙漠型气候
Translation:一种气候类型，其特征为缺少能够支持大量植物生命的水分；也就是说，一种极端干燥的气候。

Code:2111
English Term:desert locust
Chinese Term:沙漠蝗虫


Code:2105
English Term:desertification
Definition:1) The development of desert conditions as a result of human activity or climatic changes.&#10; 2) The process of land damage which allows the soil to spread like a desert in arid and semi-arid regions. There is a loss of vegetative cover and the soil deteriorates in texture, nutrient content and fertility. Desertification affects the lives of three-quarters of the world's population, 70% of all drylands and one quarter of the total land area of the planet. There are many reasons for desertification, but the majority are caused by human activities, overgrazing, deforestation, poor land management and over-exploitation. Agenda 21 states that the priority in combating desertification should be establishing preventive measures for lands that are not yet, or are only slightly, degraded.&#10;(Source: LBC / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:沙漠化
Translation:1)由于人类活动或气候改变形成沙漠的情况。 2)在干旱和半干旱地区，土壤像在沙漠地区一样四处飞散的土地损害过程。 植被的丧失和土壤结构、营养和肥力的恶化在此处发生。 沙漠化影响了世界四分之三的人口，其占了干地的70%和地球四分之一的土地。 造成沙漠化的原因很多，但主要是由人类活动、过度放牧、森林垦伐、不良土地管理和过度开采所造成。 21世纪宣言指出战胜沙漠化的首要任务是对尚未或仅稍微恶化的土地进行预防性的措施。

Code:2109
English Term:desertification control
Definition:Remedial and preventive actions adopted against desertification include irrigation, planting of trees and grasses, the erection of fences to secure sand dunes, and a careful management of water resources.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:沙漠化控制
Translation:避免沙漠化所采取的补救和预防行动，包括灌溉、植树、植草、建立栅栏保护沙丘以及水资源的细心管理。

Code:2115
English Term:design (project)
Definition:A graphic representation, especially a detailed plan for construction or manufacture.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:设计
Translation:一种图形的展示，特别是建筑或制造的详细规划。

Code:2117
English Term:desk study
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:文件审查
Translation:无需定义

Code:2119
English Term:desorption
Definition:The process of removing a sorbed substance by the reverse of adsorption or absorption.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:托附作用
Translation:经由吸附或吸收的逆反应移除被吸附之物质。

Code:13234
English Term:destination of transport
Definition:The targeted place to which persons, materials or commodities are conveyed over land, water or through the air.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:运输目的地
Translation:通过陆运、水运或空运方式，将人、原料或商品运到目的地。

Code:2124
English Term:desulphurisation
Definition:The removal of sulphur, as from molten metals or petroleum oil. Sulphur residues in fuels end up as sulphur dioxide when the fuel is burned causing acid rain.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:脱硫作用
Translation:从熔融金属或石油中移除硫。 残留在燃料中硫在燃烧后会变为二氧化硫，造成酸雨。

Code:2125
English Term:desulphurisation of fuel
Definition:Removal of sulfur from fossil fuels (or removal of sulfur dioxide from combustion fuel gases) to reduce pollution.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:燃料脱硫
Translation:从石化燃料中去除硫（或由燃烧气体中去除二氧化硫）以降低污染。

Code:2127
English Term:detection
Definition:The act or process of discovering evidence or proof of governmental, legal or ethical violations.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:侦查
Translation:发现证据亦或是政治、法律或道德侵犯证明的行动或过程。

Code:2129
English Term:detector
Definition:A mechanical, electrical, or chemical device that automatically identifies and records or registers a stimulus, such as an environmental change in pressure or temperature, an electrical signal, or radiation from a radioactive material.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:探测器
Translation:一种机械、电子或化学性装置，可以自动识别、记录或登记一种刺激物，如︰环境压力和温度的变化、电子信号或放射性物质发出的辐射线。

Code:2131
English Term:detergent
Definition:A surface-active agent used for removing dirt and grease from a variety of surfaces and materials. Early detergents contained alkyl sulphonates, which proved resistant to bacterial decomposition, causing foaming in rivers and difficulties in sewage treatment plants. These hard detergents were replaced during the 1960s with soft biodegradable detergents. Apprehension continues to be expressed about the use of phosphates in detergents, helping to promote the process of eutrophication. No satisfactory substitute has yet emerged.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:清洁剂
Translation:一种表面活性剂，用来去除各种各样表面及物质的灰尘和油脂。 早期的清洁剂含有烷基璜酸盐，它能够抑制细菌分解，导致河流大量泡沫，且难以被污水处理厂处理。 在1960年代，这些硬性清洁剂被软化且可以被生物降解的清洁剂所替代，但人们同样担心清洁剂中的磷会促进水体优养化。 直到现在仍没有合适的替代品。

Code:2139
English Term:determination method
Definition:Method employed in the assessment or in the evaluation of a quantity, a quality, a fact, an event, etc.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term:测定方法
Translation:用来进行品质、数量、事实、事件等评估的方法。

Code:14950
English Term:deterrence
Definition:Punishment aiming at deterring the criminal from repeating his offences or deterring others from committing similar acts.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term:威慑
Translation:防止他人犯下同样或相似罪行的惩罚行为。

Code:2140
English Term:deterrent
Definition:Any measure, implement or policy designed to discourage or restrain the actions or advance of another agent, organization or state.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:威慑
Translation:用来阻碍或限制其他国家、组织或个人的行为或动作的任何措施、实施方案或策略。

Code:2143
English Term:detoxification
Definition:The act or process of removing a poison or the toxic properties of a substance in the body.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:解毒
Translation:移除身体内毒物或物质之毒性的行动或过程。

Code:2147
English Term:developed country
Definition:A nation possessing a relatively high degree of industrialization, infrastructure and other capital investment, sophisticated technology, widespread literacy and advanced living standards among its populations as a whole.&#10;(Source: UIA)
Chinese Term:发达国家
Translation:拥有相当高程度的工业化、公共建设和其他重大投资、复杂的技术，且其人口具有较高文化及先进生活水准的国家。

Code:2151
English Term:developing countries debt
Chinese Term:发展中国家债务

Code:2152
English Term:developing country
Definition:A country whose people are beginning to utilize available resources in order to bring about a sustained increase in per capita production of goods and services.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term:发展中国家
Translation:那些开始通过利用可用资源从而在物质生产和服务上得到持续发展的国家。

Code:2155
English Term:development aid
Definition:The economic assistance or other types of support provided to developing countries to promote or encourage advancement in living standards, institutions, infrastructure, agricultural practices and other aspects of an economy, and to resolve problems typically associated with developing countries.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:发展援助
Translation:为发展中国家提供经济援助或其他形式的帮助，从而在生活水准,制度,基础设施建设，农业工作或其他经济方面得到促进或提升，以及解决发展中国家面临的典型问题。

Code:2156
English Term:development area
Definition:Area which has been given special help from a government to encourage business and factories to be set up there.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:开发区
Translation:由政府提供特别协助并鼓励设置商业或工厂的地区。

Code:2157
English Term:development co-operation
Chinese Term:开发合作



Code:2158
English Term:development model
Definition:A description, representation, or conception of the economic advancement process of a region or people.&#10;(Source: ISEP / OED)
Chinese Term:发展模式
Translation:一个区域或人在经济发展过程方面的观念、描述、或说明。

Code:2159
English Term:development pattern
Definition:The combination of qualities, structures, acts and tendencies characterizing the economic and social growth of a community or human group.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:发展模式
Translation:由质量、结构、活动及趋势多个方面综合描绘社区或人群的经济和社会发展状况。

Code:2161
English Term:development plan
Definition:The statement of local planning policies that each local planning authority is required by statute to maintain, and which can only be made or altered by following the procedures prescribed for that purpose, which include obligations to consult widely and to hold a public local inquiry into objections. The development plan includes: 1) the structure plan for the area (normally prepared by the country council); 2) an area-wide development plan for each district council area.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:发展计划
Translation:指由法律授权的地区规划机构负责制定的地区规划策略声明，该声明的制定或修改仅能按照规定的流程进行，同时必须广泛的协商讨论和接受公众质询。 发展计划包括: 1)地区的结构性计划(通常由地方议会提供)； 2)每个辖区的区域发展计划。

Code:2160
English Term:development planning
Definition:The act or process of formulating a course of action that promotes the economic advancement of a region or people, particularly in countries known to have low levels of economic productivity and technological sophistication.&#10;(Source: OED / WBG)
Chinese Term:发展规划
Translation:制定促进区域或人类经济发展计划的行为或过程，特别是在经济生产力和技术能力处于较低水平的国家。

Code:11632
English Term:devolution
Definition:The act of assigning or entrusting authority, powers or functions to another as deputy or agent, typically to a subordinate in the administrative structure of an organization or institution.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:委付
Translation:将权责、权力或功能分配或委托给其他代理人或中介的行为,典型的受委托对象如组织管理结构中的下属。

Code:2167
English Term:dialysis
Definition:A process of selective diffusion through a membrane; usually used to separate low-molecular-weight solutes which diffuse through the membrane from the colloidal and high-molecular-weight solutes which do not.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:透析
Translation:选择性扩散通过薄膜的过程；通常用于分离可通过扩散通过薄膜的低分子量溶质，与无法通过薄膜的胶体和高分子量溶质。

Code:2168
English Term:diatom
Definition:Unicellular algae, some of which are colonial, green or brownish in colour (but all contain chlorophyll) and with siliceous and often highly sculptured cell walls. Diatoms make up much of the producer level in marine and freshwater food chains, and they have contributed to the formation of oil reserves. Deposits of diatomaceous earths were formed by the accumulation of diatom cell walls.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:硅藻
Translation:单细胞藻类。 其中一些是无性的，颜色为绿色或褐色（但都含叶绿素），含有硅质的细胞壁呈高塑性。 硅藻在海水和淡水食物链中处于生产者阶层，他们有助于石油储备的形成，硅藻细胞壁的聚集造成了硅质土的沉积。

Code:2173
English Term:dictionary
Definition:A reference book containing an explanatory alphabetical list of words, as a book listing a comprehensive or restricted selection of the words of a language; identifying usually, the phonetic, grammatical, and semantic value of each word, often with etymology, citations, and usage guidance and other information.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term:字典
Translation:参考书的一种，其中包含按字母顺序排序的文字的解释，书中列出某种语言中广泛或有限的文字，说明每个字的语音、语法和语义，通常伴随语源、出处、使用说明和其他信息。

Code:2175
English Term:didactics
Definition:The art or science of teaching.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:教学法
Translation:教学的艺术或科学。

Code:2177
English Term:diesel engine
Definition:An internal combustion engine operating on a thermodynamic cycle in which the ratio of compression of the air charge is sufficiently high to ignite the fuel subsequently injected into the combustion chamber.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:柴油引擎
Translation:一种热力循环内燃发动机，其空燃比相当高，足以点燃燃烧室内的油料。

Code:2179
English Term:diesel fuel
Definition:Heavy oil residue used as fuel for certain types of diesel engines.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:柴油燃料
Translation:重油的残渣,是某些柴油机的燃料。

Code:2182
English Term:differentiation
Definition:The development of cells so that they are capable of performing specialized functions in the organs and tissues of the organisms to which they belong.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term:分化
Translation:生物体中的细胞为了能够达到其所属器官与组织的特殊功能，而进行的发育。

Code:11641
English Term:diffuse pollution
Definition:Pollution from widespread activities with no one discrete source, e.g. acid rain, pesticides, urban run-off etc.&#10;(Source: HGD)
Chinese Term:扩散污染
Translation:由非单一原因的广泛活动造成的污染。例如酸雨、农药、城市下水堵塞等。

Code:2185
English Term:diffuse source
Definition:Pollution which arises from various activities with no discrete source.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:扩散源
Translation:

Code:2186
English Term:diffusion
Definition:The spontaneous movement and scattering of particles (atoms and molecules), of liquid, gases, and solids.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:扩散
Translation:液体、气体和固体颗粒（原子和分子）的自发性移动与分散现象。

Code:2187
English Term:digested sludge
Definition:Sludge or thickened mixture of sewage solids with water that has been decomposed by anaerobic bacteria.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:消化污泥
Translation:经厌氧（气）菌分解后之污泥或浓缩污泥。

Code:2188
English Term:digester
Definition:Machine which takes refuse and produces gas such as methane from it.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:消化槽
Translation:指可分解废弃物并产生气体（如甲烷）的机器。

Code:2190
English Term:digestion (sewage)
Definition:The reduction in volume and the decomposition of highly putrescible organic matter to relatively stable or inert organic and inorganic compounds. Sludge digestion is usually done by aerobic organisms in the absence of free oxygen.
Chinese Term:消化（污泥）
Translation:将极易腐烂之有机物质的体积减少并分解成相对稳定或惰性的有机与无机化合物。 污泥消化过程通常是好氧微生物在缺乏自由氧存在下进行。

Code:14904
English Term:digital image processing technique
Definition:Techniques employed in the calibration of image data, the correction or reduction of errors occurring during capture or transmission of the data and in various types of image enhancement-operations which increase the ability of the analyst to recognize features of interest.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term:数字图像处理技术
Translation:校正影像资料所使用的技术，例如修正或降低资料在获取或传递过程中，或者各种影像强化处理的错误，便于增加分析者识别兴趣点特征的能力。

Code:2195
English Term:digital land model
Definition:A representation of a surface's topography stored in a numerical format. Each pixel has been assigned coordinates and an altitude.&#10;(Source: CCRS)
Chinese Term:数字土地模型
Translation:将地表的地形影像以数字格式储存。 每个像素均指定了坐标和高度。

Code:2196
English Term:digitising
Definition:The process of converting data to a form used in computers, transmitted or stored with digital technology and expressed as a string of 0's and 1's.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term:数字化
Translation:通过数字技术将数据转换成为计算机可传输和存取的0、1二进制串形式。

Code:2200
English Term:diluted acid
Definition:A less concentrated acid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:稀释的酸
Translation:浓度较低的酸。

Code:2207
English Term:dioxin
Definition:A by-product formed during the preparation of the herbicide 2, 4, 5-T, and sometimes produced by the incineration of chlorinated organic compounds. It may also occur naturally and is distributed widely in the environment, except locally in extremely low concentrations. Substantial amounts were released by the industrial accident of Seveso in 1976.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:戴奥辛
Translation:制造2,4,5-T除草剂所产生的副产物，有时也经由燃烧氯化有机物而产生。 它也可能自然产生，并广布在环境中，使其在各地区的浓度非常低。 1976年﹐Seveso的工业意外事件泄漏出大量的戴奥辛。

Code:14507
English Term:dipteran
Chinese Term:双翅类昆虫



Code:2211
English Term:direct discharger
Definition: Factories and industrial concerns which do not discharge their sewage directly into public sewers, but directly into a waterway.&#10;(Source: AZENP)
Chinese Term:直接排放者
Translation:工厂企业没有将其制造的废(污)水排入公共废（污）水处理系统而直接排入水路。


Code:2212
English Term:directive
Definition:The second rank of administrative acts (inferior to regulations, superior to decisions) made by the council or commission of the European Communities on order to carry out their tasks in accordance with the Treaties. They must be addressed to states, not individuals, but many create rights for individuals or allow the directive to be pleaded before municipal court.
Chinese Term:指令
Translation:由欧洲共同体委员会制定的处于第二等级的行政法案（低于规章、高于决策），目的在于执行任务时有据可依。这些法案施加在政府而非个人之上，但仍有许多是为保障个人的权益或允许在地方法院进行辩论时使用。


Code:2213
English Term:disabled person
Definition:Person lacking one or more physical power, such as the ability to walk or to coordinate one's movements, as from the effects of a disease or accident, or through mental impairment.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:残障者
Translation:缺少一项或多项身体机能的人,例如行走或移动协调的能力,可能是来自于疾病、意外或精神心理上的损伤。


Code:2215
English Term:disaster
Definition:The result of a vast ecological breakdown in the relations between man and his environment, a serious and sudden event (or slow, as in drought) on such a scale that the stricken community needs extraordinary efforts to cope with it, often with outside help or international aid.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:灾害
Translation:在人和环境间的生态关系中严重的突发事件（也有可能是缓慢的，如干旱），可导致被影响的地区需要大量的外界和国际援助来恢复。


Code:2216
English Term:disaster cleanup operation
Definition:A course or procedure of activity designed to clear the debris or remove harmful substances left by an ecological calamity, natural or human in origin, in a given area.&#10;(Source: ISEP / TOE)
Chinese Term:灾害清除工作
Translation:一套行动方案或流程，用于清除残骸，或消除由于自然或人类因素引起生态灾害所留下的有害物质。


Code:2218
English Term:disaster contingency plan
Definition:An anticipatory emergency plan to be followed in an expected or eventual disaster, based on risk assessment, availability of human and material resources, community preparedness, local and international response capability, etc.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term:灾害应变计划
Translation:以风险评估、人力或物质资源的可用性、社区准备、及地方或国际响应能力等为基础，事先制定的可以在预期中或极可能发生的灾难中遵循的应急计划。


Code:2219
English Term:disaster control service
Definition:Work done or agency established to analyze, plan, assign and coordinate available resources in order to prepare for, respond to, mitigate and recover from damage caused by an ecological calamity, natural or human in origin.&#10;(Source: ISEP / PPB)
Chinese Term:灾害控制服务
Translation:为了分析、计划、指派和协调可用资源，以准备、反应、减轻、和恢复因自然或人为因素所引起的生态灾害造成的破坏，所做的工作或成立的机构。


Code:2220
English Term:disaster preparedness
Definition:The aggregate of measures to be taken in view of disasters, consisting of plans and action programmes designed to minimize loss of life and damage, to organize and facilitate effective rescue and relief, and to rehabilitate after disaster. Preparedness requires the necessary legislation and means to cope with disaster or similar emergency situations. It is also concerned with forecasting and warning, the education and training of the public, organization and management, including plans, training of personnel, the stockpiling of supplies and ensuring the needed funds and other resources.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:灾害准备
Translation:针对灾害而采取的整合方案，包括设计用来降低生命损失及伤害的计划和行动纲领，组织及促进有效的救援和协助，以及灾后恢复。 准备行动需要必要的立法和方式来应付灾难或类似的紧急情况；它同时要考虑到预报与警告、训练与教育民众、组织与管理，包括计划、人员训练、补给品储存、确保所需经费和其他资源的供应。


Code:2221
English Term:disaster prevention
Definition:The aggregate of approaches and measures to ensure that human action or natural phenomena do not cause or result in disaster or similar emergency. It implies the formulation and implementation of long-range policies and programmes to eliminate or prevent the occurrence of disasters.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:灾害预防、防灾
Translation:确保人类行为和自然现象不会影响或导致危害或类似的紧急状况而采取的一系列方法和测量措施，意即长期的计划和政策的构想和实施，以减轻或预防灾害发生。

Code:2222
English Term:disaster relief
Definition:Money, food or other assistance provided for those surviving a sudden, calamitous event causing loss of life, damage or hardship.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:灾害救济
Translation:将金钱、食物或其他援助提供给因突发或灾难性事件而导致生命损失、危害或困苦中的幸存者。


Code:12849
English Term:disaster zone
Definition:Zone that has been stricken by a disaster and where measures must be taken to reduce the severity of the human and material damage caused by it.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:灾区
Translation:已遭受灾害侵袭的地区，必须采取行动来减低因灾害而带来的对人类与物品损伤的严重程度。

Code:5137
English Term:discarded medicinal drug
Chinese Term:废弃的药物


Code:2226
English Term:discharge legislation
Chinese Term:排放法规

Code:2227
English Term:discharge regime
Definition:The rate of flow of a river at a particular moment in time, related to its volume and its velocity.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:河川流量状况
Translation:河流在特定时间的流量，与它的水量及流速有关。


Code:2232
English Term:disease
Definition:A definite pathological process having a characteristic set of signs and symptoms which are detrimental to the well-being of the individual.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:疾病
Translation:个体外在表现的征兆及症状的病理过程。


Code:2233
English Term:disease cause
Chinese Term:致病原因


Code:2237
English Term:disinfectant
Definition:An agent, such as heat, radiation, or a chemical, that disinfects by destroying, neutralizing, or inhibiting the growth of disease-carrying microorganisms.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:消毒剂
Translation:一种介质，如热、辐射或化学物质， 用以破坏、中和或抑制致病性微生物的生长。


Code:2238
English Term:disinfection
Definition:The complex of physical, chemical or mechanical operations undertaken to destroy pathogenic germs.&#10;(Source: CED / ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:消毒
Translation:利用物理、化学或机械性操作的混合手段，以便破坏致病性细菌。


Code:2242
English Term:dispatch note
Chinese Term:包裹运输单


Code:2245
English Term:dispersion
Definition:A distribution of finely divided particles in a medium.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:扩散
Translation:细小分离粒子在介质中的分布。


Code:2246
English Term:dispersion calculation
Definition:The calculation of pollutant dispersion is based on the use of air dispersion models that mathematically simulate atmospheric conditions and behaviour. Dispersion models can provide concentration or deposition estimates and can be used to evaluate both existing and hypothetical emissions scenarios.&#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term:扩散计算
Translation:污染扩散的计算是基于空气扩散模型通过数学方法来模拟大气条件和行为；扩散模型可以估计污染物的浓度或沉降量，同时可以评估现有或假设的排放情形。


Code:2247
English Term:displaced person
Definition:Persons who, for different reasons or circumstances, have been compelled to leave their homes.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:被迫离家者
Translation:因各种理由或情势，被迫强制离开家园的人。


Code:2253
English Term:disposal of the dead
Chinese Term:死者处置

Code:2254
English Term:disposal of warfare materials
Definition:Disposal of the material remnants of war, which can seriously impede development and cause injuries and the loss of lives and property. The disposal of warfare waste is problematic because it can be highly dangerous, toxic, long-living and requires the utilization of specific and sophisticated technologies, particularly in the case of mines and unexploded bombs which have been left on the war territories.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:战争残留物的处置
Translation:战争残留物质的处理，这些物质能严重妨碍发展并引起生命财产的伤害与损失。 处理战争残余物是一个很难解决的问题，因为这些物质具有高度危险性、毒性、持久性，并且必须利用特殊而复杂的技术，尤其是当有地雷和未爆弹遗弃在战区时。


Code:2257
English Term:dissolution
Definition:Dissolving of a material.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:溶解
Translation:物质的溶解。


Code:2259
English Term:dissolved organic carbon
Definition:The fraction of total organic carbon (all carbon atoms covalently bonded in organic molecules) in water that passes through a 0.45 micron pore-diameter filter.&#10;(Source: WQA)
Chinese Term:溶解性有机碳
Translation:水中全部有机碳(即所有碳原子以共价键联结成的有机分子)能通过0.45微米孔径滤纸所占的比例。

Code:  11788
English Term:  dissolved oxygen
Definition:      The amount of oxygen dissolved in a stream, river or lake is an indication of the degree of health of the stream and its ability to support a balanced aquatic ecosystem. The oxygen comes from the atmosphere by solution and from photosynthesis of water plants. The maximum amount of oxygen that can be held in solution in a stream is termed the saturation concentration and, as it is a function of temperature, the greater the temperature, the less the saturation amount. The discharge of an organic waste to a stream imposes an oxygen demand on the stream. If there is an excessive amount of organic matter, the oxidation of waste by microorganisms will consume oxygen more rapidly than it can be replenished. When this happens, the dissolved oxygen is depleted and results in the death of the higher forms of life.
Chinese Term:   溶解氧
Translation:    溶解在溪流、河水或湖泊中的氧气浓度，可作为河川的健康程度和维持水生态系平衡能力的指标。水中溶氧来自于大气的溶解和水生植物的光合作用。河川水体所能维持的最大氧气浓度﹐称之为饱和溶氧量﹐其值与温度有关；温度愈高，水中饱和溶氧量愈低。 当有机废弃物排入河川，会导致河川的需氧量增加；而过量的有机物进入水体时，微生物氧化这些有机物所消耗的氧量远快于氧气补充入水的速率，一旦氧气被消耗殆尽，会导致较高等生物的死亡。


Code:    2260
English Term:    distillation
Definition:    The process of producing a gas or vapour from a liquid by heating the liquid in a vessel and collecting and condensing the vapours into liquids.
Chinese Term:   蒸馏
Translation:     从液体产生气体或蒸气的过程﹐即加热容器中液体来收集蒸气并将之凝结成液体。



Code:    2262
English Term:  distilling industry
Definition:     A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of alcoholic beverages made by a distillation process of vaporization and condensation, such as vodka, rum, whiskey and other related beverages.
Chinese Term:   蒸馏酒工业
Translation:     经济部门之一，从事制造和行销经由蒸馏、汽化和浓缩而成的酒精饮料，如伏特加酒、莱姆酒、威士忌酒和其它相关饮料的商业公司集合。


Code:   2263
English Term:  distortion of competition
Definition:     Article 85(1) of the EEC Treaty prohibits all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between member states and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market. All such arrangements are automatically null and void under Article 85(2), unless exempted by the Commission pursuant to Article 85(3). The text of Article 85 is as follows: "1. The following shall be prohibited as incompatible with the common market: all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between member states and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market, and in particular those which: (a) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices or any other trading conditions; (b) limit or control production, markets, technical development, or investment; (c) share markets or sources of supply; (d) apply dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive disadvantage; (e) make the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts.
Chinese Term:   竞争扭曲
Translation:     欧洲经济共同体(EEC)的协定条款85（1）规定禁止一切如下的企业之间的协定、联盟企业间的决策，及商定惯例，即那些可能会影响会员国间的贸易以及其目标或结果是阻止、限制或扭曲在共同市场中进行竞争的协议。 根据条款85（2），所有这些协议将自动失效，除非委员会依照条款85（3）免除。条款85的全文如下：“1禁止一切如下的企业之间的协定、联盟企业间的决策，及商定惯例，即那些可能会影响会员国间的贸易以及与其目标或结果是阻止、限制或扭曲在共同市场中进行竞争的协议，特别是以下内容：（a）直接或间接的固定买卖价格或任何其他交易状况； (b)限制或控制生产、市场、技术发展、或投资额；(c)分享市场或供应源； (d) 适用不同的条件，与其他贸易方的相应交易，从而把他们在竞争中处于劣势； (e)作出契约结论，依性质或商业惯例接受与契约目标无关联的其他追加契约伙伴。


Code:   2264
English Term:  distribution
Definition:      In an environmental context, the term refers to the dispersion of air pollutants and depends on the type of pollution source (point source, line source, diffuse source), the wind velocity and the wind direction. Distribution can be active or passive.
Chinese Term:  散布
Translation:    在环境领域，这个词用来表达空气污染物的散布并且与污染源的种类（点声源、线污染源、混合污染源）、风速和风向相关。散布可以是主动的，也可以是被动的。


Code:   544
English Term:   distribution area
Definition:   1) The overall geographical distribution of a talon.  &#10;2) The range occupied by a community or other group.
Chinese Term:  分布区域
Translation:   1)一个分支的广泛地理分布。&#10;2)一个群落或其他族群所占据的区域。


Code:   13149
English Term:  distributive trade
Definition:     Distribution of material goods to consumers, through retailing and wholesaling.
Chinese Term:   配售交易
Translation:    通过批发或零售将物质产品分配给消费者。


Code:  2269
English Term:   district heating
Definition:     The supply of heat, either in the form of steam or hot water, from a central source to a group of buildings.
Chinese Term:   区域供热
Translation:     从中央能源以蒸汽或者热水的形式为一组建筑供给热能。


Code:   2270
English Term:  district heating plant
Definition:    Plant for heating all houses in a district; it consists of a large, efficient, centralized boiler plant or "waste" steam from a power station. The heat is distributed by means of low-pressure steam or high-temperature water to the consumers.
Chinese Term:   区域性供热厂
Translation:    在一个区域中给所有住户提供暖气的工厂；它是由一个大型、高效的中央锅炉车间组成，或是利用发电厂的废蒸气。热气经由低压蒸汽或高温热水传送至消费者。


Code:   2275
English Term:  disused military site
Definition:  Military site where all activity has ceased. Such areas, being extremely well sheltered against outside disturbances and in many ways less affected by human landuse than many other open landscapes, can contain significant natural habitats and rare or endangered wildlife. Abandoned military territories constitute an important source of natural landscapes to be managed and restored in an environmentally sound way.
Chinese Term:   弃用军事用地
Translation:    即停止各种活动及使用的军事场址。此类地区掩蔽性绝佳，不受外界干扰，在许多方面比其它开放区域更少受到人类对土地使用的影响，因此可含有大量自然栖地和稀有或濒临绝种的野生动物。废弃的军事领域含有重要自然景观资源，需以环保的方式来管理及恢复。


Code:   2276
English Term:   ditch
Definition:   A long, narrow excavation artificially dug in the ground; especially an open and usually unpaved waterway, channel, or trench for conveying water for drainage or irrigation, and usually smaller than a canal. Some ditches may be natural watercourses.
Chinese Term:   沟渠
Translation:    地面上由人工挖掘的又长又窄的沟；尤其指开口的、不铺砖的水路、水道或沟渠，用于排水或灌溉，通常比运河小，有些渠可以是天然的水道。


Code:   2279
English Term:  DNA
Definition:     The principal material of inheritance. It is found in chromosomes and consists of molecules that are long unbranched chains made up of many nucleotides. Each nucleotide is a combination of phosphoric acid, the monosaccharide deoxyribose and one of four nitrogenous bases: thymine, cytosine, adenine or guanine. The number of possible arrangements of nucleotides along the DNA chain is immense. Usually two DNA strands are linked together in parallel by specific base-pairing and are helically coiled. Replication of DNA molecules is accomplished by separation of the two strands, followed by the building up of matching strands by means of base-pairing, using the two halves as templates. By a mechanism involving RNA, the structure of DNA is translated into the structure of proteins during their synthesis from amino acids.
Chinese Term:   去氧核糖核酸
Translation:    遗传的基础物质。存在于染色体，由不分支的长链核甘酸分子所组成。 每个核甘酸由磷酸、脱氧核糖和四个含氮碱基(腺嘌呤、鸟粪嘌呤、胞嘧啶、胸腺嘧啶)中之一所组成。 DNA链上核甘酸可能的排列顺序是无限多。 通常两条脱氧核醣核酸链通过碱基配对平行排列形成双螺旋结构。 DNA分子的复制需要将两DNA链分离，然后两链各自作为范本，以碱基配对进行复制。 在胺基酸的合成中，经由含有核醣核酸的机制，DNA的结构被转译进入蛋白质的结构中。 (Source: ALL)


Code:   11468
English Term: doctrine (law)
Definition:    A rule, principle, theory, or tenet of the law, as the doctrine of merger, the doctrine of relation, etc.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:   教条（法律）
Translation:   法律的规则、准则、理论或原则，像并购的条文、关系的条文等。


Code:   2282
English Term:   document
Definition:     Material of any kind, regardless of physical form, which furnishes information, evidence or ideas, including items such as contracts, bills of sale, letters, audio and video recordings, and machine readable data files.
Chinese Term:   文件
Translation:      不论何种实体形态的各种材料，含有各种咨询、证据或意见，包括合约、买卖账单、书信、视听记录以及机器可读的数据档案。


Code:   14887
English Term: document lending
Definition:     The service provided by a library in which the library's clients are temporarily allowed to use books and other printed materials outside the library.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   文件外借
Translation:     图书馆所提供的，暂时性允许读者在图书馆外使用其书籍或其它印刷品的一种服务


Code:   2286
English Term:   document type
Definition:     Any one of a number of diverse classes of written, printed or digitized items furnishing information or evidence, and distinguished by content, form or function.
Chinese Term:   文件类型
Translation:    任何含有不同手写、打印或数字格式的信息或证据的文件，可由其内容、形式或功能加以区分


Code:   13001
English Term: documentary film
Definition:     Any motion picture or movie in which an actual event, era or life story is presented factually, with little or no fiction.&#10;(Source: C / RHW)
Chinese Term:   记录片
Translation:   含有很少或不含虚构情节的电影或动画，可真实地呈现事件、年代或真实故事。


Code:   13312
English Term: documentary system
Definition:     A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources providing written, printed or digitized items that furnish or substantiate information or evidence.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  文件系统
Translation:    经过协调整合的设备或其他资源的组合，可提供或证实经手写、打印和数字化的信息或证明。


Code:   2284
English Term:     documentation
Definition:     The process of accumulating, classifying and disseminating information, often to support the claim or data given in a book or article.
Chinese Term:   文档化
Translation:     收集、分类、散播信息的过程，通常用以支持书或文章中的主张和资料。


Code:   2285
English Term:  documentation centre
Definition:    Centre for assembling, coding, and disseminating recorded knowledge comprehensively treated as an integral procedure, utilizing various techniques for giving documentary information maximum accessibility and usability.
Chinese Term:   文件处理中心
Translation:     被视为一个整合程序而广泛收集、编码和传送已作好记录的知识的中心，其利用各种技术尽可能地提供可获得的实用信息。


Code:   2287
English Term:   dog
Definition:     A common four-legged animal, especially kept by people as a pet or to hunt or guard things.
Chinese Term:  狗
Translation:    常见的四脚动物，特别是被人类驯养作为宠物或狩猎、守护等用途。


Code:   2290
English Term:  domestic appliance
Definition:     A machine or device, especially an electrical one used domestically.
Chinese Term:   家用电器
Translation:   一种机器或装置，特别是家用的电子设备。


Code:   2293
English Term:  domestic fuel
Definition:    Fuels obtained from different sources that are used for domestic heating.
Chinese Term:  家用燃料
Translation:   来自不同来源的家用加热燃料。


Code:   2294
English Term:  domestic fuel oil
Definition:     Liquid petroleum product used in domestic heaters.
Chinese Term:   家用燃油
Translation:   用于家用加热的液态石油产物。


Code:   2298
English Term:   domestic noise
Definition:     Noise caused by domestic facilities and activities.
Chinese Term:   家庭噪音
Translation:    由家庭设施和活动造成的噪音。


Code:   11642
English Term: domestic pollution
Definition:
Chinese Term:   家庭污染
Translation:


Code:   2300
English Term: domestic trade
Definition:     Trade wholly carried on at home; as distinguished from foreign commerce.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:   国内贸易
Translation:    完全在国内进行的贸易，与对外贸易有所不同。


Code:   2301
English Term:  domestic waste
Definition:    Waste generated by residential households and comprised of any material no longer wanted or needed.
Chinese Term:  家庭废弃物
Translation:  居民日常生活所产生的废弃物，包括任何不再使用或需要的物品。


Code:   2304
English Term: domestic waste landfill
Definition:     Site for the disposal of wastes arising from domestic activities.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   家用废弃物掩埋场
Translation:   日常活动产生废弃物弃置的场地。


Code:   2305
English Term:   domestic waste water
Definition:    Wastewater principally derived from households, business buildings, institutions, etc., which may or may not contain surface runoff, groundwater or storm water.
Chinese Term:   生活污水
Translation:    主要来自住家、商业建筑物或其他机构的废水，可能包含或者不包含地表径流、地下水或暴雨。


Code:   2291
English Term: domesticated animal
Definition:     1) Wild animal which has been trained to live near a house and not be frightened of human beings; 2) species which was formerly wild, now selectively bred to fill human needs.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:   驯养动物
Translation:    1）野生动物经驯养，生活在房舍旁，不对人类构成威胁；&#10;2）最初是野生品种，后经选择性繁殖满足人类的需要。


Code:   2307
English Term:  dosage
Definition:     The amount of a substance required to produce an effect.
Chinese Term:   剂量
Translation:    某种物质能发挥功效的数量。


Code:   2308
English Term:  dose
Definition:     The amount of test substance administered. Dose is expressed as weight of test substance (g, mg) per unit weight of test animal (e.g., mg/kg), or as weight of food or drinking water.
Chinese Term:   剂量
Translation:  监控的试验用物质的数量。剂量是指试验用物质的重量（如克、毫克）与每单位重量的实验动物（如毫克/千克）之比值，或是与食物、饮用水的重量比值。


Code:   2309
English Term:  dose-effect relationship
Definition:     The relation between the quantity of a given substance and a measurable or observable effect.
Chinese Term:   剂量与效果关系
Translation:   某物质的剂量与可测量或观察的效果间的关系。


Code:   2315
English Term:  draft legislation
Definition:     An initial unsigned agreement, treaty, or piece of legislation which is not yet in force.
Chinese Term:  草案立法
Translation:      一个初始尚未签署的协定、条约或尚未生效的部分法令。


Code:   2316
English Term:  dragonfly
Definition:     Any of the insects composing six families of the suborder Anisoptera and having four large, membranous wings and compound eyes that provide keen vision.
Chinese Term:   蜻蜓
Translation:    组成差翅亚目的6科昆虫。有四个大膜翅和具有敏感视觉的复合眼。


Code:   2319
English Term:  drainage
Definition:    1) Removal of groundwater or surface water, or of water from structures, by gravity or pumping.&#10; 2) The discharge of water from a soil by percolation (the process by which surface water moves downwards through cracks, joints and pores in soil and rocks).
Chinese Term:   排水
Translation:     (1)通过重力或抽水方式将地下水或地表水，或建筑物中的水移除。 &#10;(2)通过渗透作用（地表水向下流入土壤和岩石接缝和孔隙的过程）、移除土壤中的水。


Code:   11231
English Term: drainage system
Definition:     A surface stream, or a body of impounded surface water, together with all other such streams and water bodies that are tributary to it and by which a region is drained. An artificial drainage system includes also surface and subsurface conduits.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:    排水系统
Translation:   指地表河流、或集水处，以及其所有的支流和排水区域。人工排水系统同样包括地表和地下的管道。

Code:   2323
English Term:  drainage water
Definition:     Incidental surface waters from diverse sources such as rainfall, snow melt or permafrost melt.
Chinese Term:   排放水
Translation:    来自不同源头，如雨水径流，溶雪或冻土层融解的非常态性地表水。


Code:   11204
English Term: draining
Definition:     The removal of water from a marshy area by artificial means, e.g. the introduction of drains.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:   排水
Translation:   以人工的方法从沼泽地区排泄水，如导水。


Code:   2324
English Term:  draught animal
Definition:
Chinese Term:   拖拽动物
Translation:


Code:   11812
English Term: drawing
Definition:     To cause to discharge from an abscess or wound or to obtain a sample of tissue or organic liquid for examination.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:   抽检
Translation:   从溃疡或伤口处引出脓液，或取出组织或器官体液以作检验。


Code:   2326
English Term:  dredged material
Definition:     Unconsolidated material removed from rivers, streams, and shallow seas with machines such as the bucket-ladder dredge, dragline dredge, or suction dredge.
Chinese Term:  疏浚物质
Translation:   通过例如铲斗型挖泥机、牵引索挖泥机、吸泥机等机器，从河川、溪流或浅海中挖掘出来的松散物质。


Code:   2327
English Term:  dredging
Definition:     Removing solid matter from the bottom of a water area.
Chinese Term:  疏浚
Translation:   从水域的底部去除固体物质。


Code:   2332
English Term:  drift net fishing
Definition:     The use of fishing nets of great length and depth, aptly described as "walls of death" because of the huge numbers of marine mammals, birds, and turtles that became ensnared in them. The Tarawa Declaration of 1989 formulated at the 20th South Pacific Forum, aimed at banning drift netting in the South Pacific. In June 1992 the UN banned drift netting in all the world's oceans.
Chinese Term:   漂流网捕鱼
Translation:     用很长很深的鱼网捕鱼。这种网被形容为“死亡之墙”，因为大量的海洋哺乳动物、鸟类和海龟被它们所捕获。 在20世纪“南太平洋论坛”陈述了1989年的《塔拉瓦宣言》，指出禁止使用漂流网在南太平洋捕捞，1992年六月，联合国禁止漂流网在世界海洋范围内使用。


Code:   2333
English Term:  drilling
Definition:     The act of boring holes in the earth for finding water or oil, for geologic surveys, etc.
Chinese Term:   钻探
Translation:    地质勘探，寻找水或石油而在地球表面钻孔的行为。


Code:   12488
English Term: drilling for oil
Definition:     Boring a hole for extracting oil.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:    钻探石油
Translation:      为了提取石油而钻孔。


Code:   2336
English Term:  drilling installation
Definition:     The structural base upon which the drill rig and associated equipment is mounted during the drilling operation.
Chinese Term:   钻探装置
Translation:      在钻探操作过程中，可将钻探设备和其它相关设施安装在其的上一种结构。


Code:   2339
English Term:  drinking water
Definition:     Water that is agreeable to drink, does not present health hazards and whose quality is normally regulated by legislation.
Chinese Term:   饮用水
Translation:   适合饮用且对健康无害的水，其品质通常受法规管制。


Code:   2340
English Term: drinking water protection area
Definition:     Area surrounding a water recovery plant in which certain forms of soil utilization are restricted or prohibited in order to protect the groundwater.&#10;(Source: AZENP)
Chinese Term:   饮用水保护区
Translation:   水处理厂周围的区域，在该区域中限制或禁止某些形式的土地利用以保护地下水。


Code:   2343
English Term: drinking water supply
Definition:     The provision and storage of potable water, or the amount of potable water stored, for the use of a municipality, or other potable water user.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:    饮用水供给
Translation:    为了城市使用或其它饮用水使用者的需求而供应和储存的饮用水，或饮用水的储存量。


Code:   2344
English Term: drinking water treatment
Definition:     The Directive on the Quality of Surface Water Intended for Drinking Water defines three categories of water treatment (A1, A2, A3) from simple physical treatment and disinfection to intensive physical and chemical treatment. The treatment to be used depends on the quality of the water abstracted. The Directive uses imperative values for parameters known to have an adverse effect on health and also guide values for those which are less adverse. There is also a directive which complements the "surface water abstraction" Directive by indicating the methods of measurement and the frequency of sampling and analysis required.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term:    饮用水处理
Translation:    欧盟《可饮用的地表水水质指引》中将饮用水根据其处理程度，分成三级（A1，A2，A3），包括从简单的物理处理和消毒到复杂的物理化学处理。 采用的处理等级，依原水水质而定。 欧盟指引对于已知有害健康的参数，通常采取强制管理；对于危害性较小者，则采取指引式的规范。 欧盟也定有相关指引，制定采样与分析方法和频率，以补充“地表水抽取“指引的不足。


Code:   2347
English Term: drought
Definition:     A period of abnormally dry weather sufficiently prolonged so that the lack of water causes a serious hydrologic imbalance (such as crop damage, water supply shortage) in the affected area.&#10;(Source: MGH
Chinese Term:   干旱
Translation:    一长段时间异常干燥的天气型态，其造成的缺水情形导致受影响地区的严重水文不平衡（如谷物受损、水供应短缺）。



Code:   2350
English Term: drought control
Definition:     Measures taken to prevent, mitigate or eliminate damage caused to the ecosystem, especially crops, by a sustained period of dry weather.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:   干旱控制
Translation:     用于预防、减轻或消除因长期缺水的天气而导致危害生态系统的方法，尤其是指对农作物而言。


Code:   2354
English Term: drug (medicine)
Definition:     A chemical substance used internally or externally as a medicine for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment or cure of disease, for the relief of pain or to control or enhance physical or mental well-being.&#10;(Source: RHW, APD)
Chinese Term:   药品
Translation:  一种可内服或外用的化学物质，可作为预防、诊断、处理或治疗疾病的用药，以减轻病痛、控制或增强身心健康。


Code:   2352
English Term: drug abuse
Definition:
Chinese Term:   药物滥用
Translation:


Code:   2358
English Term: dry cleaning
Definition:     To clean fabrics etc. with a solvent other than water.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:   干洗
Translation:    用溶剂而非用水来清洗纺织品。

Code:   2359
English Term: dry deposition
Definition:     The accumulation of both particles and gases as they come into contact with soil, water or vegetation on the earth's surfaces.&#10;(Source: DES)
Chinese Term:   干沉降
Translation:    微粒、气体接触到地表面的土壤、水或植物后的聚集过程。


Code:   2360
English Term: dry farming
Definition:     A system of extensive agriculture allowing the production of crops without irrigation in areas of limited rainfall. Dry farming involves conserving soil moisture through mulching, frequent fallowing, maintenance of a fine tilth by cross-ploughing, repeated working of the soil after rainfall and removal of any weeds that would take up some of the moisture.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:    旱地农业
Translation:   一种粗放耕作系统。可以在少雨地区无需灌溉的情况下生产农作物。 可以在少雨地区无需灌溉的情况下生产农作物。 旱地农业可通过覆盖物、休耕和交叉耕作来保持土壤水分。 此外，也可通过在降水后复耕土壤和去除吸收水分的杂草来保持天土壤水分。

Code:   10703
English Term: dry lawn
Definition:     No definition needed.
Chinese Term:   干草地
Translation:   无需定义


Code:   2361
English Term:   drying
Definition:     The process of partially or totally removing water or other liquids from a solid.
Chinese Term:   干燥
Translation:   从固体中移除部分或全部水分或其他液体的过程。


Code:   2363
English Term: drying out
Definition:     Removal of water from any substance.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   脱水
Translation:   将水分从任何物质中移除。


Code:   2364
English Term: dual economy
Definition:     An economy based upon two separate/distinct economic systems which co-exist in the same geographical space. Dualism is characteristic of many developing countries in which some parts of a country resemble advanced economies while other parts resemble traditional economies, i.e. there are circuits of production and exchange.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:   二元经济
Translation:    存于同一地理空间，但基于两种相互分离的或完全不同的经济系统下的一种经济。 双重或二元经济论是许多发展中国家的经济特征，国家的一部分地区类似先进经济，而其他地区却是类似传统经济，即具有生产和交易的轮替性。


Code:   2365
English Term:    dual waste management
Definition:     To reduce the quantity of packaging waste, and thereby of overall MSW, Germany introduced a far-reaching legislation to reduce waste, based on the producer's responsibility principle. Industry was given the option to set up a third party organization which would carry out the collection and sorting of sales packaging for care of manufacturers and retailers. Thus, Some 600 companies created "Duales System Deutschland" in 1990 ("Dual" because it meant creating a second collection system in parallel to the existing waste collection system of the local authorities). Duales System Deutschland (DSD), now has overall responsibility for the separate collection and recycling of packaging. At present, the Dual System is the only nationwide system for the collection and sorting of sales packaging. Packaging participating in this collection system is marked with the Green Dot.&#10;(Source: EPEBE)
Chinese Term:   双重废弃物管理
Translation:  基于生产者职责的理念，德国提出广泛的废弃物减排法律来降低包装废弃物的数量。 各产业可以选择建立第三者的组织来收集和整理生产商、零售商销售所用的包装。 因此，1990年，600家公司创立了“德国双重系统”（用“双重”是指除了当地政府的现存废弃物收集系统之外，同时创立第二个收集系统）。目前，德国双重系统（DSD）对包装的分类收集和回收有全面性的责任，双重系统是唯一的包装收集和回收的国家级系统。参与该收集系统的包装标有绿色标志。


Code:   2367
English Term: dumping
Definition:     The discarding of waste in any manner, often without regard to environmental control.&#10;(Source: RHW / ERG)
Chinese Term:  弃置
Translation:    任意抛弃废弃物，常未考虑到环境保护。


Code:   2377
English Term: dune
Definition:    A low mound, ridge, bank, or hill of loose, windblown granular material (generally sand, sometimes volcanic ash), either bare or covered with vegetation, capable of movement from place but always retaining its characteristic shape.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:   沙丘
Translation:    松散的、被风吹动的粒状物（通常是沙子，有时是火山灰）所形成的低墩、山脊、沙洲或小丘，可能是光秃秃或覆盖着植被，能移动位置但总保留着它的形状特征。


Code:   10927
English Term: durable goods
Definition:     Goods which have a reasonably long life and which are not generally consumed in use: e.g. refrigerator.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:   耐久品
Translation:     不易在使用过程中被消耗，可长期使用的物品，如：电冰箱


Code:   2380
English Term: duration of sunshine
Definition:     Period of the day during which the sun is shining.  &#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term:   日照时间
Translation:      一天内阳光能够照耀的时间。


Code:   2381
English Term: dust
Definition:     Any kind of solid material divided in particles of very small size.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:   粉尘
Translation:     任何分裂成非常小颗粒的固体物。


Code:   2383
English Term: dust immission
Definition:
Chinese Term:  粉尘吸纳
Translation:


Code:   2384
English Term: dust removal
Definition:     The removal of dust from air by ventilation or exhaust systems.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:   除尘
Translation:    利用通风或者排气系统去除空气中的灰尘。


Code:   2387
English Term: dwelling
Definition:     Any enclosed space wholly or partially used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:   住房
Translation:   任何封闭的空间，部分或者全部被用为或者打算被用作居住、睡觉、烹煮和吃饭。


Code:   2389
English Term: dye
Definition:     A coloring material.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:  染料
Translation:   一种用于上色的物质。


Code:   2393
English Term: dyke
Definition:     An artificial wall, embankment, ridge, or mound, usually of earth or rock fill, built around a relatively flat, low-lying area to protect it from flooding; a levee. A dyke may be also be constructed on the shore or border of a lake to prevent inflow of undesirable water.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:  坝，堤，堰
Translation:    人造的围墙、筑堤、桥梁或者土墩，一般由泥土和石头填充并建造在平坦或者低洼的地方以防止洪水，是一个防洪堤。一座堤也可能被建造在岸边或者湖的边界以防止未预料的水流入。


Code:   2394
English Term: dyke reinforcement
Definition:     The addition of material to strengthen the structure of the dykes.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term:  堤防加固
Translation:   一种额外添加的材料，用于加固堤的建造。


Code:   2398
English Term: early warning system
Definition:     Any series of procedures and devices designed to detect sudden or potential threats to persons, property or the environment at the first sign of danger; especially a system utilizing radar technology.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   预警系统
Translation:   设计用于在危险前探知对人类、财产或环境的立即或潜在威胁的任何系列程序和设备，特别是利用雷达技术的系统。


Code:   2405
English Term: earth science
Definition:     The science that deals with the earth or any part thereof; includes the disciplines of geology, geography, oceanography and meteorology, among others.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   地球科学
Translation:   谈及地球或地球任何部分的科学，其中包括地质学、地理学、海洋学、气象学以及其他学科。


Code:   2402
English Term: earthquake
Definition:     The violent shaking of the ground produced by deep seismic waves, beneath the epicentre, generated by a sudden decrease or release in a volume of rock of elastic strain accumulated over a long time in regions of seismic activity (tectonic earthquake). The magnitude of an earthquake is represented by the Richter scale; the intensity by the Mercalli scale.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term:   地震
Translation:   由地震中央深处的地震波引起地面的猛烈摇动，在一个地震活动性（构造地震）区域，岩体内累积超过一段长时间的弹性应力突然地减少和释放所产生。地震的大小用芮氏（Richter）震级来表示；地震强度用麦加利（Mercalli）震级来表示


Code:   2400
English Term: earth's crust
Definition:     The outer layers of the Earth's structure, varying between 6 and 48 km in thickness, and comprising all the material above the Mohorovicic Discontinuity (a seismic discontinuity occurring between the crust of the earth and the underlying mantle; the discontinuity occurs at an average depth of 35 km below the continents and at about 10 km below the oceans). The earlier idea of a cool solid skin overlaying a hot molten interior has now been replaced by a concept of a crust composed of two shells: an inner basic unit composed of sima (oceanic crust) and an outer granitic unit composed of sial (continental crust).&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:  地壳
Translation:   地球结构的外层，厚度为6公尺至48公尺，包含莫霍（洛维奇）不连续面（一个引起地震的不连续面，出现在地壳及其下的地幔之间；这不连续面出现在陆地下平均35公里和海洋下大约10公里处）以上的所有物质。 以前认为一个冷却坚固的表层覆盖着热熔融内部的想法，现在已被地壳是由两层外壳组成的概念所取代，一个是硅镁组成的内部基本单元（大洋地壳），一个是由硅铝组成的外部花岗石单元（大陆地壳）。


Code:   2406
English Term: Earth-Sun relationship
Definition:     The Earth depends on the sun for its existence as a planet hospitable to life, and solar energy is the major factor determining the climate. Hence, conditions on the sun and conditions on Earth are inextricably linked. Although the sun's rays may appear unchanging, its radiation does vary. Many scientists suspect that sunspot activity has a greater influence on climatic change than variations attributed to the greenhouse effect.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  地日关系
Translation:   地球依靠太阳而成为一个适宜生命生存的行星，且太阳能是决定气候的主要因素。 因此，太阳上的条件和地球上的条件有着密不可分的关系。虽然太阳光看似无变化，但它的辐射却改变了。 许多科学家怀疑，太阳黑子的活动对气候的影响远超过温室效应所带来的变化。


Code:   2408
English Term: earthworm
Definition:     Any of numerous oligochaete worms of the genera Lumbricus, Allolobophora, Eisenia, etc., which burrow in the soil and help aerate and break up the ground.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:  蚯蚓
Translation:  包括蚯蚓属，缟蚯蚓与蚓属的寡毛类蠕虫，蚯蚓能够在土壤中挖掘并有助于通风，以及分解土壤


Code:   2409
English Term: earwig
Definition:     Any of various insects of the order Dermaptera, especially Forficula auricularia, which typically have an elongated body with small leathery forewings, semicircular membranous hindwings, and curved forceps at the tip of the abdomen.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:  蠼
Translation:   属于革翅目的各种昆虫，特别是蠼，典型特征为瘦长的身体，具有皮革状的小型前翼，以及位于腹部上向后弯曲的半圆膜状的钳子


Code:   11536
English Term: easement
Definition:     The rights of use over the property of another; a burden on a piece of land causing the owner to suffer access by another.&#10;(Source: DUHA)
Chinese Term:   地役权
Translation:    使用支配他人财产的权利。土地拥有者的土地被他人使用所带来的负担。


Code:   2411
English Term: East Africa
Definition:     A geographic region of the African continent that includes Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia and Somalia, and also Mt. Kilimanjaro and Lake Victoria.&#10;(Source: ENA / CIA)
Chinese Term:  东非
Translation:     一块属于非洲的地理区域，包括布隆迪，肯尼亚，卢旺达，坦桑尼亚，乌干达，埃塞俄比亚和索马里，以及乞力马扎罗山和维多利亚湖。


Code:   2412
English Term: Eastern Asia
Definition:     A geographic region of the Asian continent bordered by the Pacific Ocean in the east that includes China, Japan, Korea, Macao, Taiwan and Siberia.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  东亚
Translation:     一块属于亚洲的地理区域，位于太平洋以东，包括中国、日本、韩国、澳门、台湾和西伯利亚。


Code:   2413
English Term: Eastern Europe
Definition:     A geographic region of the European continent west of Asia and east of Germany and the Adriatic Sea, traditionally consisting of countries that were formerly part of the Soviet Union, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Serbia, Croatia and Bulgaria.&#10;(Source: INP / CIA)
Chinese Term:   东欧
Translation:     一块包括西亚和德国东部以及亚得里亚海的地理区域，通常包括那些曾经属于苏联的国家，例如波兰，捷克共和国，斯洛伐克，匈牙利，罗马尼亚，塞尔维亚，克罗地亚和保加利亚。


Code:   2414
English Term: East-West relations
Definition:
Chinese Term:  东西方关系
Translation:


Code:   2415
English Term: East-West trade
Definition:     Trade between countries and companies of the Western hemisphere with those of the Eastern hemisphere (usually referring to former Communist countries of Eastern Europe).
Chinese Term:   东西方贸易
Translation:     东半球（通常是指东欧前共产主义国家）的国家以及公司与西半球国家以及公司之间的贸易。



Code:   2419
English Term: EC Council of Ministers
Definition:     The organ of the EU that is primarily concerned with the formulation of policy and the adoption of Community legislation. The Council consists of one member of government of each of the member states of the Community, and its presidency is held by each state in turn for periods of six months.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term:  欧共体内阁
Translation:     欧盟机构主要包括政策的制定和相关法例的通过。该委员会由各成员政府的成员组成，其主席是各成员国每六个月轮流担任。


Code:   2422
English Term: EC directive
Definition:     A type of legislation issued by the European Union which is binding on Member States in terms of the results to be achieved but which leaves to Member States the choice of methods.&#10;(Source: BUSIN)
Chinese Term:  欧共体指示
Translation:    一个由欧盟发表的立法类型，它是根据成员国取得的结果绑定，但是让成员国保留对方式的选择权利。


Code:   2423
English Term: EC directive on biocides
Definition:     Directive regulating the placing of biocidal products on the market.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:   欧共体关于生物性农药的指示
Translation:    指示规范生物农药产品在市场上的配售。


Code:   2424
English Term: EC directive on packaging
Definition:     EC Directive proposed on 15 July 1992 aiming at harmonizing national measures concerning the management of packaging and packaging waste; the directive covers all packaging placed on the market.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term:   欧共体关于包装材料的指示
Translation:   欧共体发表于1992年7月15日的指示，旨在协调各个国家对包装材料的管理和包装材料浪费在内的措施。指示包括所有进入市场的包装材料。


Code:   2425
English Term: EC directive on waste disposal
Definition:     EC Directive whose main object concerns waste prevention, recycling and transformation into alternative energy sources. (Source: DIRAMB)
Chinese Term:   欧共体关于废弃物处理的指示
Translation:   欧共体的指示，其主要目标包括废弃物的预防、回收，以及将其转化成替代能源。



Code:   2426
English Term: EC directive on water protection
Definition:     Directive concerning the use and management of water resources for a rational economical and social development and the protection of the related environmental features.&#10;(Source: DIRAMB)
Chinese Term:  欧共体关于水资源保护的指示
Translation:   指示关于根据合理的经济和社会发展利用和管理水资源，以及对相关环境特征的保护。



Code:   2427
English Term: EC ecolabel
Definition:     The European Community (EC) initiative to encourage the promotion of environmentally friendly products. The scheme came into operation in late 1992 and was designed to identify products which are less harmful to the environment than equivalent brands. For example, eco-labels will be awarded to products that do not contain chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which damage ozone layer, to those products that can be, or are, recycled, and to those that are energy efficient. The labels are awarded on environmental criteria set by the EC. These cover the whole life cycle of a product, from the extraction of raw materials, through manufacture, distribution, use and disposal of the product. The first products to carry the EC eco-labels were washing machines, paper towels, writing paper, light bulbs and hairsprays.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:   欧洲共同体环保标签
Translation:   欧洲共同体倡议鼓励环保产品的推广。该项计划于1992年底投入运作，其目的在于确定相同品牌产品中更环保的产品。例如，环保标签将赋予那些不含破坏臭氧层的氯氟烃（CFC）的产品、那些可以或者是可再生的产品、那些高能效的产品。这些标签是由欧盟委员会授予的环保标准。包括一个产品的整个生命周期，从原料的提取到制造、分配、使用和处置。首批带有欧共体生态环保标签的商品有：洗衣机、擦手纸、书写纸、灯泡和发胶。



Code:   2533
English Term: EC policy
Definition:
Chinese Term:  欧洲共同体政策
Translation:


Code:   2534
English Term: EC regulation
Definition:
Chinese Term:  欧洲共同体规定
Translation:


Code:   2535
English Term: EC regulation on eco-management and audit
Definition:
Chinese Term:  欧洲共同体关于生态管理和审查规划的规定
Translation:


Code:   2536
English Term: EC regulation on existing chemicals
Definition:     Regulation designed to identify and control of risks deriving from existing chemicals. According to this program the main goal is the collection of basic information about existing chemicals including their uses and characteristics, environmental fate and pathways, toxicity and ecotoxicity.&#10;(Source: DOBRIS)
Chinese Term:  欧洲共同体关于现有化学品的规定
Translation:    规定旨在确定和控制现有化学品所产生的风险。根据这一方案,主要目标是对现有化学品的基本信息进行收集，包括其用途和特点，环境归宿和途径，毒性和生态毒性。


Code:   13279
English Term: EC Treaty
Definition:
Chinese Term:  欧洲共同体条约
Translation:


Code:   2428
English Term: echinoderm
Definition:     Marine coelomate animals distinguished from all others by an internal skeleton composed of calcite plates, and a water-vascular system to serve the needs of locomotion, respiration, nutrition or perception.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   棘皮类动物
Translation:     海洋类有体腔动物，区别于其他动物之处在于由方解石板组成的一个内部骨架和一个满足运动、呼吸作用、营养或者知觉的水管系。

Code:   13576
English Term:   eco-balance
Definition:     An eco-balance refers to the consumption of energy and resources and the pollution caused by the production cycle of a given product. The product is   followed throughout its entire life cycle, from the extraction of the raw materials, manufacturing and use, right through to recycling and final handling of waste.
Chinese Term:    生态平衡
Translation:   生态平衡指的是能量和资源的消耗及特定产品在其生产周期中产生的污染。整个产品的生命周期，从获取原料、生产和使用，一直到废弃物的回收和最终处置的过程均被追踪。


Code:   12790
English Term:   ecocatastrophe
Definition:     A sudden, widespread disaster or calamity causing extensive damage to the environment that threatens the quality of life for people living in the affected area or region, potentially leading to many deaths.
Chinese Term:   生态灾难
Translation:     一场突发且广泛性的灾难或不幸给环境带来巨大的破坏，而威胁了居住于受影响区域的人们，可能导致大量死亡。


Code:   2434
English Term:   ecodevelopment
Definition:     1) Conservative development based on long term optimization of biosphere resources.&#10; 2)An approach to development through rational use of natural resources by means of appropriate technology and system of production which take into account and provide for the conservation of nature.&#10;(Source: GREMES /  UNUN)
Chinese Term:  生态发展
Translation:    1．以生物圈资源长期优化为基础的保守发展。 、&#10;2. 通过考虑自然保持的适当技术和生产系统，以发展合理利用自然资源的方法。


Code:   10936
English Term:   ecolabel
Definition:     A mark, seal or written identification attached or affixed to products that provides specific ecological information allowing consumers to make comparisons with other similar products, or instructions on how to safely use or properly recycle or dispose of both products and packaging.&#10;(Source: OPP)
Chinese Term:   环保标章
Translation:   附于产品上的标志、印章、或书写文字，提供特别生态信息以供顾客比较其他类似产品、或指引顾客如何安全使用、或适当回收或抛弃此产品及其包装。


Code:   2435
English Term:   ecolabelling
Definition:    The European Community's initiative to encourage the promotion of environmentally friendly products. The scheme came into operation in late 1992 and was designed to identify products which are less harmful to the environment than equivalent brands. It was hoped that by buying labelled goods, consumers would be able to put pressure on manufacturers and retailers both to make and to stock "greener" products. This includes the effects they have on the environment at all stages. The labels are awarded on environmental criteria set by the EC.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  环保标志
Translation:    由欧盟所发起的鼓励促进环境友好的产品。 这个计划自1992年开始执行，是用来确认与同类品牌相比，哪些产品对环境的危害较小，包括产品生命周期中每一阶段对环境的影响。希望通过消费者购买带有这种标志的产品来促使生产商和零售商生产“绿色产品”。这些标志是以欧洲共同体所颁布的环境准则来认证。


Code:   2437
English Term:   ecological abundance
Definition:     The European Community's initiative to encourage the promotion of environmentally friendly products. The scheme came into operation in late 1992 and was designed to identify products which are less harmful to the environment than equivalent brands. It was hoped that by buying labelled goods, consumers would be able to put pressure on manufacturers and retailers both to make and to stock "greener" products. This includes the effects they have on the environment at all stages. The labels are awarded on environmental criteria set by the EC.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:   生态丰富度
Translation:    在特定时间和特定区域中某种典型动物或植物个体的数量。


Code:   2438
English Term:   ecological adaptation
Definition:     Change in an organism so that it is better able to survive or reproduce, thereby contributing to its fitness.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:   生态适应性
Translation:   生物体为更好地生存或繁殖，因而有利于环境适应性的改变。


Code:   2440
English Term:   ecological assessment
Definition:     Ecological assessment consists in monitoring the current and changing conditions of ecological resources from which success or failure of the ecosystem can be judged without bias; understanding more fully the structure and function of ecosystems in order to develop improved management options; developing models to predict the response of ecosystems to changes resulting from human-induced stress from which possible ecosystem management strategies can be assessed and assessing the ecological consequences of management actions so that decisionmakers can best understand the outcomes of choosing a particular management strategy.&#10;(Source: ESEPA)
Chinese Term:   生态评估
Translation:    生态评估包括监测生态资源的现状及变化，以便正确地判断生态系统的成功或失败；更充分了解生态结构及功能，以开发更新的管理机制；建立模式以预测因人为压力所造成生态系统变化的回应，进而评估可能的生态系统管理策略，以及评估管理行动完成之后所造成的生态结果，让决策者更容易了解选择某一特定管理策略的结果。


Code:   2441
English Term:   ecological balance
Definition:     The condition of equilibrium among the components of a natural community such that their relative numbers remain fairly constant and their ecosystem is stable. Gradual readjustments to the composition of a balanced community take place continually in response to natural ecological succession and to alterations in climatic and other influences.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:   生态平衡
Translation:     自然群落中组成成分间的平衡状况，从而使得它们之间的相对数量基本上仍保持恒定，且生态系统是稳定的。 一个平衡的群落会逐步地、连续地重新调整其组成成分来响应自然生态的演替、季节更换和其他的影响。


Code:   2442
English Term:   ecological bookkeeping
Definition:     The systematic accounting or recordkeeping of a company's impact on the environment or its progress towards environmentally sound business practices.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term:  生态簿记
Translation:   系统地核算或记载一个公司对环境的影响，或向实现绿色企业的发展。


Code:   1198
English Term:   ecological carrying capacity
Definition:     1) The maximum number of species an area can support during the harshest part of the year, or the maximum biomass it can support indefinitely. 2) The maximum number of grazing animals an area can support without deterioration.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:   生态承载力
Translation:    1）在一年中条件最苛刻的时候,一个区域所能承载的最大物种数量，或最大生物量。&#10;2）一区域所能承载的且不会破坏该地区的最大放牧动物数量。


Code:   1613
English Term:   ecological community
Definition:     1) All of the plants and animals in an area or volume; a complex association usually containing both animals and plants. &#10;2) Any naturally occurring group of organisms that occupy a common environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY /  ALL)
Chinese Term:  生态群落
Translation:   1)区域或空间内所有动物和植物；通常包含动物和植物的复杂关系。&#10;2）任何自然产生﹐且占有某一公共环境的生物群体。


Code:   2450
English Term:   ecological factor
Definition:     An environmental factor that, under some definite conditions, can exert appreciable influence on organisms or their communities, causing the increase or decrease in the number of organisms and/or changes in the communities.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:  生态因素
Translation:    在给定的条件下，对生物体或其群落施加的可观影响，引起生物体数量的增减或生物群落内部变化的环境因素。


Code:   10959
English Term:   ecological inequality
Definition:     Any imbalance or disparity among inhabitants of the same living environment deemed inappropriate, unjust or detrimental to that environment's integrity.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term:    生态失衡
Translation:    生活在相同环境下的居民间的任何失调或不一致，被认为是不合适、不法或者有害于环境的完整性。


Code:   2456
English Term:   ecological niche
Definition:     1) The space occupied by a species, which includes both the physical space as well as the functional role of the species.&#10; 2) Ecological niche refers to the characteristics of an environment that provides all the essential food and protection for the continued survival of a particular species of flora or fauna. In addition to food and shelter, there is no long-term threat to existence in that place from potential predators, parasites and competitors. The concept of the ecological niche goes a long way beyond the idea of the species habitat.&#10;(Source: LBC /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  生态地位
Translation:   1 )由某一物种所占据的空间，包括物理空间和物种的功能角色。&#10;2）生态地位是指为某一特定动植物物种继续生存提供食物或保护的环境特征。除食物及庇护外，在这个环境中也不存在对生存构成长期威胁的潜在捕食者、寄生虫以及竞争者。生态地位的概念已经超越了物种栖息地的提法。

Code:   2457
English Term:   ecological parameter
Definition:     A variable, measurable property whose value is a determinant of the characteristics of an ecosystem.&#10;(Source: EPAGLOa)
Chinese Term:   生态参数
Translation:   决定生态系统特性的可测量的变量。


Code:   2463
English Term:   ecological stocktaking
Definition:    Taking stock of, evaluating, or inventorying a company's impact on the environment or its progress towards environmentally sound business practices.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   生态盘查
Translation:   评价或清点公司存货对环境的影响，或朝向绿色企业的进展。


Code:   2461
English Term:   ecologically sensitive area
Definition:     Area where it is likely that a change in some parts of the system will produce a recognizable response.&#10;(Source: ALL2a)
Chinese Term:   生态敏感地区
Translation:    某一地区，其生态系统中的某些部分发生变化可能导致某些可辨别的反应。


Code:   2469
English Term:   ecologist movement
Definition:     Grouping of individuals and organizations dedicated to the protection of the environment.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:  生态学家的动态
Translation:    致力于环境保护的个体与组织群体。


Code:   2470
English Term:   ecology
Definition:    The study of the interrelationships between living organisms and their environment.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:  生态学
Translation:   对活体生物与其生活环境之间相互联系的研究。


Code:   11065
English Term:   ecomarketing
Definition:     The buying, selling, advertising, shipping, and storing of goods in compliance with ecological principles.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term:  生态市场
Translation:   遵守生态规则的商品买、卖、广告、运送及储存。


Code:   10890
English Term:   ecomuseum
Definition:     A private, non-profit facility where plants and animals can be viewed in a natural outdoor setting.&#10;(Source: AGRENV)
Chinese Term:  生态博物馆
Translation:    可以在户外自然环境中参观植物和动物的私人的、非营利性的场所。


Code:   2476
English Term:   economic activity
Definition:     Any effort, work, function or sphere of action pertaining to the production of goods, services or any other resource with exchange value.&#10;(Source: RHW / NDECON)
Chinese Term:   经济活动
Translation:   任何有关于商品生产、服务或其他交换价值资源的努力、工作、功能或行动范围。


Code:   2478
English Term:   economic analysis
Definition:     The quantitative and qualitative identification, study, and evaluation of the nature of an economy or a system of organization or operation.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term:   经济分析
Translation:    对经济本质或组织或操作的系统本质所做的定性定量的识别、学习和评估。


Code:   1639
English Term:   economic competition
Definition:     The market condition where an individual or firm that wants to buy or sell a commodity or service has a choice of possible suppliers or customers.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:   经济竞争
Translation:    希望买卖某种商品或服务的个人或者公司拥有选择供应商或者消费者的市场状况。


Code:   13258
English Term:   economic concentration
Definition:     The extent to which a market is taken up by producers within a given industry.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:  经济集中化
Translation:   对指定的工业，生产者占据市场的程度。


Code:   11119
English Term:   economic data
Definition:     No definition needed.
Chinese Term:  经济数据
Translation:


Code:   2484
English Term:   economic development
Definition:     The state of nations and the historical processes of change experienced by them, the extent to which the resources of a nation are brought into productive use; the concept of development subsumes associated social, cultural and political changes as well as welfare measures.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:  经济发展
Translation:   国家状况及其历史变迁过程，将国家资源转变成商品用途程度。 发展的概念包含社会、文化与政治的相关变迁及福利措施等。


Code:   13240
English Term:   economic forecasting
Definition:     The production of estimates of future financial and commercial trends, based on econometric models or surveys.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:  经济预测
Translation:    基于计量经济学模型或调查，对未来金融和商业趋势的评价结果。


Code:   13170
English Term:   economic geography
Definition:     The geography of people making a living, dealing with the spatial patterns of production, distribution and consumption of goods and services. The development of economic geography over the past three decades has witnessed the substitution of analysis for description, leading to an identification of the factors and an understanding of the processes affecting the spatial differentiation of economic activities over the earth's surface.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:  经济地理学
Translation:   关于人类谋生，生产、分配和消耗商品和服务的空间型态的地理学。 三十年来，经济地理学的发展见证了描述分析法的更替，导向因素的判定及影响地表经济活动的空间差异性过程的了解。

Code:   2490
English Term:   economic growth
Definition:     An increase over successive periods in the productivity and wealth of a household, country or region, as measured by one of several possible variables, such as the gross domestic product.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:  经济成长
Translation:   在连续周期内，家庭、国家或地区生产力和社会财富的增加，可由几个可能变量中的一个来衡量，例如国内生产总值。


Code:   11047
English Term:   economic incentive
Definition:     Rewards or penalties offered by government or management to induce an economic sector, company or group of workers to act in such a way as to produce results that plan objectives or policy goals.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:  经济诱因
Translation:    政府或管理机构提供的奖金或罚款，旨在促进经济部门、公司或工人团体在政府的计划或政策目标内进行生产。


Code:   2493
English Term:   economic instrument
Definition:     Any tool or method used by an organization to achieve general developmental goals in the production of, or in the regulation of, material resources.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:   经济手段
Translation:    一个组织为达到物质资源生产或调控的一般性发展目标而采用的任何工具或方法。


Code:   2494
English Term:   economic management instrument
Definition:     A tool or method used by any organization in the management of developmental processes used in the production of, or in the regulation of, material resources.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:  经济管理手段
Translation:    任何组织在物质资源生产或调控的开发过程管理中，所采用的工具或方法。


Code:   11016
English Term:   economic plan
Definition:     A design, scheme or project pertaining to the production, distribution and use of income, wealth and commodities.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  经济规划
Translation:  有关生产、分配和对收益、财富与商品使用的设计、计划或者方案。


Code:   2497
English Term:   economic planning
Definition:     An economy in which prices, incomes etc. are determined centrally by government rather than through the operation of the free market, and in which industrial production is governed by an overall national plan.
Chinese Term:   经济规划
Translation:   价格与收益由政府同意决定而非市场自由运作的经济体，其工业生产也完全由国家整体计划管理。


Code:   2498
English Term:   economic policy
Definition:     A definite course of action adopted and pursued by a government, political party or enterprise pertaining to the production, distribution and use of income, wealth and commodities.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   经济政策
Translation:   一个政务、政党、企业就相关的生产、分配以及收入、财富和商品的应用而采取或者进行的明确的行动方针。


Code:   13301
English Term:   economic region
Definition:     A district or an administrative division of a city or territory that is designed according to some material, distributive or productive criteria.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  经济区
Translation:  根据某些原料、分布性或者生成性的准则而规划的都市或者领地行政区域。


Code:   13330
English Term:   economic rights
Definition:     The just claims and legal guarantees to access, participate in and profit from the production, distribution and use of property, intellectual property, income and wealth.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   经济权
Translation:   从生产、分配与财务使用、知识产权、收入与财富中所得到的，参与获利的正当要求或合法保证。


Code:   7554
English Term:   economic sector
Definition:     A part of a country's or region's commercial, industrial and financial activity, delimited either by public, corporate and private organization of expenditures or by agriculture, manufacturing and service product types.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:   经济部门
Translation:    国家或地区的商业、工业、和金融活动的一部分，可以根据公众、社团、私人组织的花费或根据农业、制造业和服务产品的类型进行划分。


Code:   2505
English Term:   economic situation
Definition:     The complex of elements which, in a given period, characterize the condition or state of a country or region's ability to produce goods, services and other resources with exchange value.&#10;(Source: trZ / RHW)
Chinese Term:  经济状况
Translation:   众多元素的复合体，被视为描述一定时期内，一个国家或地区生产货物、服务和其他具有交换价值资源的状态。


Code:   13148
English Term:   economic structure
Definition:     The underlying framework, including transportation and communications systems, industrial facilities, education and technology, that enables a country or region to produce goods, services and other resources with exchange value.&#10;(Source: MGHME / RHW)
Chinese Term:  经济结构
Translation:    提供一个国家或地区生产商品、服务和其他具交换价值资源的基本架构，包含运输和通信系统、工业设施、教育和技术等。


Code:   13238
English Term:   economic support
Definition:     Any form of financial assistance or inducement for persons or institutions.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:  经济支持
Translation:   对人或机构所采取的任何形式的财政援助或激励。


Code:   2508
English Term:   economic system
Definition:     Organized sets of procedures used within or between communities to govern the production and distribution of goods and services.&#10;(Source: TEA)
Chinese Term:   经济系统
Translation:   社团内部或社团之间，为管理货物和服务的生产、分配而组织的一系列过程。


Code:   2510
English Term:   economic theory
Definition:     The study of relationships in the economy. Its purpose is to analyze and explain the behaviour of the various economic elements. The body of economic theory can be divided into two broad categories, positive theory and welfare theory. Positive theory is an attempt to analyze the operation of the economy without considering the desirability of its results in terms of ultimate goals. Welfare theory is concerned primarily with an evaluation of the economic system in terms of ethical goals which are not themselves derived from economic analysis.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term:  经济理论
Translation:   研究经济关系的学科。其目的是分析和解释各种经济元素的行为。经济理论的主体可大致分为实证论和福利论两种。实证论是在不考虑对最终结果有希望的情况下，分析经济操作。福利理论主要是根据并非经济分析推出的伦理目标来评价经济系统。


Code:   2511
English Term:   economic trend
Definition:     Changes of variables and parameters of an economic system, analysed in statistical calculations.
Chinese Term:   经济趋势
Translation:  由统计计算分析的经济系统的变量和参数的变动


Code:   2512
English Term:   economic viability
Definition:     Capability of developing and surviving as a relatively independent social, economic or political unit.&#10;(Source: WEBSTEa)
Chinese Term:   经济生存能力
Translation:   作为相对独立的社会、经济或政治体的发展和生存能力。


Code:   2514
English Term:   economic zoning
Definition:     A land-use planning design or control where specific types of businesses or private sector investment are encouraged within designated boundaries.&#10;(Source: ALL / EEN)
Chinese Term:  经济分区
Translation:  土地使用规划的设计或控制，鼓励特定类型的企业或私人厂商在指定区域内投资。


Code:   2477
English Term:   economical-ecological efficiency
Definition:     The competency in performance in business matters involving the relation between financial and environmental principles.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term:  经济生态效率
Translation:   指包含金融和环境准则关系的商业活动绩效能力。


Code:   2501
English Term:   economics
Definition:     The social study of the production, distribution, and consumption of wealth.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term:  经济学
Translation:  关于生产、分配和财富消费的社会研究。

Code:   2516
English Term:   economy
Definition:     The system of activities and administration through which a society uses its resources to produce wealth.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:   经济体制
Translation:   社会通过资源使用来创造社会财富的活动与管理系统。


Code:   2517
English Term:   eco-paediatrics
Definition:     Branch of medical science concerning the study and the therapy of children diseases caused by environmental factors.&#10;(Source: CEDa /  RRDA)
Chinese Term:   生态小儿科学
Translation:   医学的分支，关于环境因素引起幼儿疾病的研究与治疗。


Code:   2518
English Term: ecophysiology
Definition:   The study of biophysical, biochemical and physiological processes used by animals to cope with factors of their physical environment, or employed during ecological interactions with other organisms.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:  生态生理学
Translation:  研究动物用来应对物理环境因素，或者与其他的有机体发生生态交互时所运用的生物物理、生物化学和生物学过程的学科。


Code:   2519
English Term: ecosystem
Definition:     A community of organisms and their physical environment interacting as an ecological unit.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:  生态系统
Translation:   一个生物群落和它的物理环境交互作用的一种生态单位。


Code:   2520
English Term: ecosystem analysis
Definition:     Detailed study of an ecosystem carried out to ascertain its features from the point of view of its soil composition, energy flux, biogeochemical cycles, biomass, organisms and their relationship with the environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   生态系统分析
Translation:   对一个生态系统来执行的详细研究，从土壤成分、能量流、生物地理化学循环、生物质量、有机体以及它与环境的关系等方面来确定其特征。


Code:   2522
English Term: ecosystem degradation
Definition:     Degradation or destruction of large natural environments. When one ecosystem is under attack as a result of natural or man-made disaster it is extremely difficult to calculate the ripple effects throughout nature. When two or more ecosystems are being degraded the probabilities of synergistic destructiveness multiply. Ecosystems in many regions are threatened, despite their biological richness and their promise of material benefits.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:  生态系统恶化
Translation:  指大范围自然环境的恶化或破坏。当某个生态系统被自然或人为的灾难破坏时，要计算其对整个自然界的影响是非常困难的。当两个或多个生态系统被恶化时，产生综合破坏作用的可能性也倍增。尽管生态系统的生物丰富性及物质优势，许多地区的生态系统已遭受威胁。


Code:   2523
English Term: ecosystem research
Definition:     Study of the ways in which plants, animals, and microbes interact with each other and with their physical environment and of the processes involving the circulation, transformation and accumulation of both matter, especially nutrient materials, and energy.&#10;(Source: CULTER /  PARCORa)
Chinese Term:  生态系统研究
Translation:  探讨植物、动物、微生物彼此间的交互作用以及它与物理环境互动的方式，并探讨物质（尤其是营养物质）与能量间的循环、转换以及累积的过程。


Code:   2525
English Term: ecosystem type
Definition:     Ecosystems can be classified according to various criteria: from the point of view of energy source, two major types of ecosystems can be distinguished. Autotrophic ecosystems have primary producers as a principal component and sunlight has the major initial energy source; etherotrophic ecosystems depend upon preformed organic matter that is imported from autotrophic ecosystems elsewhere. Ecosystems can also be classified in terrestrial, marine and freshwater.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:  生态系统类型
Translation:  根据不同的标准可将生态系统进行分类：从能量的角度，可将生态系统分成两种不同的类型。自养生态系统以初级生产者为主要组成，阳光为主要能量来源；异养生态系统则依赖来自于自养生态系统中的有机物质。生态系统也可以按陆地、海洋和淡水来划分。


Code:   2527
English Term: ecotourism
Definition:     Excursions to relatively untouched lands, which for the tourist promise the chance to observe unusual wildlife and indigenous inhabitants. The travel industry, in an attempt to market adventure and authenticity to those travellers weary of "civilisation" promote travel to environments free of modern technology. Ecotourism's inherent contradiction is the promotion of untouched lands, which immediately become touched by the hands of tourism.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:  生态旅行
Translation:   到相对未开发的地方去旅行，旅客们能够看到不常见的野生生物和本土居民。 旅游行业试图在厌倦了城市生活并希望冒险和体验真实生活的旅行者中打开市场，于是将旅行引向远离现代科技的环境中去。生态旅游的内在矛盾是把旅游引向未开发的地方，使这些地方立即被“旅游之手”触及了。


Code:   2528
English Term: ecotoxicity
Definition:     Quality of some substances or preparations which present or may present immediate or delayed risks for one or more sectors of the environment.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:  生态毒性
Translation:  对一种或多种环境因子造成或可能造成立即或延迟风险的物质或措施的特性。


Code:   2529
English Term: ecotoxicological evaluation
Definition:     Evaluation of the adverse effects of chemicals, physical agents, and natural products on population and communities and plants, animals and human beings.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:   生态毒性评估
Translation:  指化学物质、物理代理和天然产品等，对族群、社区、动植物和人类所造成的负面效应的评价。


Code:   2530
English Term: ecotoxicology
Definition:     The science dealing with the adverse effects of chemical, physical agents, and natural products on populations and communities of plants, animals and human beings.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 生态毒性学
Translation:   处理化学物质、物理代理和天然产品对于社区、动植物、和人类有不利影响的科学。


Code:   2531
English Term: ecotype
Definition:     Species that has special characteristics which allow it to live in a certain habitat.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 生态型
Translation:  生活在特定栖息地且具有专门特性的物种。


Code:   10131
English Term:  ecozone
Definition:     A broad geographic area in which there are distinctive climate patterns, ocean conditions, types of landscapes and species of plants and animals.&#10;(Source：SCHNET)
Chinese Term:  生态带
Translation:    一个广阔的地理区域，有鲜明的气候特征、海洋环境、景观类型和动植物种群。


Code:   2539
English Term: edaphology
Definition:    The study of the relationships between soil and organisms, including the use made of land by mankind.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:  土壤生态学
Translation:   研究土壤和生物之间关系的学科，包括人类对土地的使用。


Code:   2542
English Term: edible fat
Definition:     An oil that can be eaten as a food or food accessory.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  食用脂肪
Translation:   一种作为食品或者装饰食品的可以被食用的油。


Code:   2547
English Term: education
Definition:     The act or process of imparting or acquiring knowledge or skills.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   教育
Translation:  传授或者获得知识和技能的行为或者过程。


Code:   2555
English Term: education policy
Definition:     A course of action adopted and pursued by government or some other organization, which promotes or determines the goals, methods and programs to be used for training, instruction or study that leads to the acquisition of skills or knowledge, or the development of reasoning and judgment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  教育政策
Translation:   政府或者其他的组织所采用和追求的行动方针，用以推动或决定为获得技能知识或推理与判断发展所做的训练、教育、或学习的目标、方法与程序。


Code:   2551
English Term: educational institution
Definition:    An organization or establishment devoted to the act or process of imparting or acquiring knowledge or skills.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  教育机构
Translation:  专注于传授或者获得知识、技巧的行为或者过程的组织或机构。


Code:   10907
English Term: educational path
Definition:     A guided trail, designed to explain to children a piece of countryside, the type of soil, flora, fauna, etc. Such trails may be self-guiding, using either explanatory notices set up at intervals or numbered boards referring to a printed leaflet: in other cases parties may be led by a demonstrator or warden.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:  教育路线
Translation:   一个有导引的小径，设计用来为小孩解释某些乡野知识、土壤种类、植物、动物等。这种小径可能利用定点设立讲说牌，或用编号版参考所印制的说明书，也可以自我编导，在其他情况下可能有解说员或看守员引导。


Code:   2554
English Term: educational planning
Definition:     The process of making arrangements or preparations to facilitate the training, instruction or study that leads to the acquisition of skills or knowledge, or the development of reasoning and judgment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  教育规划
Translation:   让获得技巧、知识或推理与判断的训练、教学或学习过程更加容易的安排或者准备的过程。


Code:   2557
English Term: educational system
Definition:     Any formulated, regular or special organization of instruction, training or knowledge disclosure, especially the institutional structures supporting that endeavor.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  OED)
Chinese Term:  教育系统
Translation:   任何教授、培训或传播知识的常规或特殊组织，尤其指支持某项尝试的学术结构。


Code:   2562
English Term: effect
Definition:     Effects include: a) direct effects, which are caused by the action and occur at the same time and place, b) indirect effects, which are caused by the action and are later in time or farther removed in distance, that are still reasonably foreseeable.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:  影响
Translation:  影响包括：a）直接影响，经由同时或同地发生的行为所引起的 b）间接影响，经由较晚时间或在较远地方发生的某种行为所引起的，它可以被合理的预测。


Code:   2564
English Term: effect on health
Definition:
Chinese Term:  对健康的影响
Translation:


Code:  2565
English Term: effect on man
Definition:     No definition needed.
Chinese Term:  对人的影响
Translation:


Code:   2566
English Term: effect on the environment
Definition:     Resultant of natural or manmade perturbations of the physical, chemical or biological components making up the environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:  环境影响效果
Translation:  自然或者人为的扰动对构成环境的物理、化学或生物组件的影响结果。


Code:   2569
English Term: efficiency criterion
Definition:     Parameter or rule for assessing the competency in performance of production relative to the input of resources.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term:  效益准则
Translation:   关于投入资源的生产绩效能力评估的参数或准则。


Code:   2570
English Term: efficiency level
Definition:     The ratio of output to input, usually given as a percentage.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:  效率水平
Translation:   产出与投入的比值，通常用百分比表示。


Code:   2571
English Term: effluent
Definition:     The waste liquid from domestic sewage, industrial sites or from agricultural processes. Effluents are harmful when they enter the environment, especially in freshwater, because of their polluting chemical composition.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  污水
Translation:   来自家庭、工业场所或者农业生产过程所排放的废弃污水。因为污水具有化学污染的成分，当它流入环境（特别是淡水）时，将造成环境危害。


Code:   2573
English Term: egg
Definition:     A large, female sex cell enclosed in a porous, calcareous or leathery shell, produced by birds and reptiles.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  蛋
Translation:   由鸟类或者爬虫类所产生的，被多孔状石灰或者皮革般外壳所包裹的巨大雌性细胞。


Code:   2580
English Term: EIA (local)
Definition:     The identification, evaluation and appraisal of the ecological consequences of a proposed project or development in a city, town or region, and the measures needed to minimize adverse effects.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:  环境影响评估
Translation:  对都市、城镇、区域所提议的项目或者开发的生态影响，以及将不良后果的影响最小化的方法进行辨别、评估和评定。


Code:   2578
English Term: EIA directive
Definition:     Council Directive of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (85/337/EEC). The Directive applies to projects which are likely to have significant effects on the environment by virtue of their nature, size or location.&#10;(Source: PENEL)
Chinese Term:  环境影响评估指令
Translation:   1985年7月27日议会指令，用来评估某公共和私人项目对环境的影响(85/37/EEC)。 该指令应用于对环境可能有显著影响的计划，环境影响则依据公共和私人项目的自然价值、规模或位置。

Code:   2579
English Term: EIA law
Definition:     Law concerning the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, based on the EC Directive n. 85/337.&#10;(Source: PENELa)
Chinese Term:  环境影响评估法
Translation:  基于EC（欧洲共同体）指令85、337，关于公共或者私人计划对环境影响的评估法规。


Code:   2582
English Term: elasticity
Definition:     Ability of a material to return to original dimensions after deformation.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:  弹性
Translation:  物质变形后恢复原形的能力。


Code:   2584
English Term: elderly person
Definition:     Someone who has reached the later stage of life or who has attained a specified age within that stage.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  老年人
Translation:   已经到达生命的后期阶段或者在这个阶段中已经到达某个特定年龄的人。


Code:   12367
English Term: electric battery
Definition:     A direct-current voltage source made up of one or more units that convert chemical, thermal, nuclear, or solar energy into electrical energy.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  电池
Translation:  一种直流电压源，它由可以将化学能、热能、核能或太阳能转变成电能的一个或者多个单元组成。


Code:   2599
English Term: electric line
Definition:     Wires conducting electric power from one location to another; also known as electric power line.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   电线
Translation:  将电力从一处传到至另外一处的线，也称为电力线。


Code:   2601
English Term: electric power
Definition:     The rate at which electric energy is converted to other forms of energy, equal to the product of the current and the voltage drop.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  电力
Translation:   电能转换为其他形式能量的速率，等于电流和电压变化的乘积。


Code:   2606
English Term: electric power plant
Definition:     A stationary plant containing apparatus for large-scale conversion of some form of energy (such as hydraulic, steam, chemical, or nuclear energy) into electrical energy.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  电厂
Translation:  拥有能大规模将某些形态的能源（如：水力、蒸气、化学或核能）转换为电能设备的固定性工厂。


Code:   2608
English Term: electric power supply
Definition:
Chinese Term:  电力供应
Translation:


Code:   2612
English Term: electric vehicle
Definition:     Vehicle driven by an electric motor and characterized by being silent and less polluting.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:  电动车
Translation:  由电动机驱动的车辆，具有低噪音和低污染的特点。


Code:   2586
English Term: electrical engineering
Definition:     Engineering that deals with practical applications of electricity; generally restricted to applications involving current flow through conductors, as in motors and generators.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  电力工程
Translation:  有关电的实际应用的工程，一般限于电流通过导体应用，如用于发动机和发电机。


Code:   14959
English Term: electrical goods industry
Definition:     Economic activity for manufacturing electric material and devices.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 电器工业
Translation:   生产制造电器材料和设备的经济活动。


Code:   2587
English Term: electrical industry
Definition:     Industry for the production of electric energy.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:  电力工业
Translation:  生产电能的工业。


Code:   2588
English Term: electrical storage device
Definition:     No definition needed.
Chinese Term:  储电瓶
Translation:


Code:   2592
English Term: electricity
Definition:     A general term used for all phenomena caused by electric charge whether static or in motion.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 电
Translation:  由电荷变化引起的各种现象的一般术语，不论是静电还是电流。


Code:   2593
English Term: electricity company
Definition:     Company which is responsible for the supply and distribution of electric energy to a given area.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 电力公司
Translation:   负责给特定区域提供电力供应和分配的公司。


Code:   2594
English Term: electricity consumption
Definition:     Amount of electricity consumed by an apparatus.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:  耗电量
Translation:   电器所消耗的电量。


Code:   2595
English Term: electricity generation
Definition:     The act or process of transforming other forms of energy into electric energy.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term:  发电
Translation:  把其他形式的能量转化为电能的行为或过程。


Code:   2596
English Term: electricity generation cost
Definition:    The value or amount of money exchanged for the production and sustained supply of charged ion current used as a power source.&#10;(Source: EFP / OED)
Chinese Term:  发电成本
Translation:   将带电离子电流转换为生产及持续供应的电源所需投入的货币数量或价值。

Code:   2597
English Term:  electricity supply industry
Definition:     Industry for the supply and distribution of electric power.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   供电业
Translation:   供给和分配电能的工业。


Code:   2617
English Term:   electrokinetics
Definition:     The study of the motion of electric charges, especially of steady currents in electric circuits, and of the motion of electrified particles in electric or magnetic fields.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  电动力学
Translation:   电荷运动的研究，尤其是电路中稳定电流以及电厂或磁场中带电粒子的运动。


Code:   2618
English Term:  electrolysis
Definition:     The production of a chemical reaction by passing an electric current through an electrolyte. In electrolysis, positive ions migrate to the cathode and negative ions to the anode.&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term:   电解
Translation:    电解质通电后发生的化学反应。在电解过程中，正电荷离子移向阴极，负电荷粒子移向阳极。


Code:   14860
English Term:  electronic information network
Definition:     A system of interrelated computer and telecommunications devices linked to permit the exchange of data in digital or analog signals.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term:   电子信息网络
Translation:   连接相关的电脑和通信设备，以允许数字数据或类比信号交换的系统。


#Code:   14868
#English Term:   bulletin board system
#Definition:    An assemblage of computer hardware and software that can be linked by computer modem dialing for the purpose of sharing or exchanging messages or other files.&#10;(Source: WIC)
#Chinese Term:  公告栏系统
#Translation:   通过调制解调器连接电脑软硬件的结合，将消息或者资料进行分享与交流。


Code:   2623
English Term:  electronic material
Definition:    No definition needed.
Chinese Term:  电子材料
Translation:   无需定义


Code:   2625
English Term:  electronic scrap
Definition:     Any material from electronic devices and systems, generated as a waste stream in a processing operation or discarded after service.&#10;(Source: APD / RHW)
Chinese Term:  电子废料
Translation:     任何电子装置或电子系统在加工处理过程中所产生的废弃物或者用完后被弃置的物质。


Code:   2626
English Term:  electronic scrap regulation
Definition:     Government or management prescribed rule for the disposal and recycling of electric parts, circuits and systems, especially computer devices.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term:   电子废料管制规定
Translation:     政府或管理部门为处理和回收电子零件、电路和系统，特别是电脑装置而制定的法规。


Code:   2624
English Term:  electronics
Definition:     Study, control, and application of the conduction of electricity through gases or vacuum or through semiconducting or conducting materials.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   电子学
Translation:     关于电子传导通过气体、真空、半导体或者导体的研究、控制和应用。


Code:   2628
English Term:   electrosmog
Definition:     Pollution caused by electric and magnetic fields generated by power lines, electrical equipment, mobile and cordless phones, radar, electrical household appliances, microwave ovens, radios, computers, electric clocks, etc.&#10;(Source: NPLa)
Chinese Term:   电磁污染
Translation:   由电磁引起的污染，如电线、电器设备、行动电话、无限电话、雷达、家用电器、微波炉、无线电收音机、电脑、电子钟等。


Code:   2633
English Term:  electrotechnical equipment
Definition:     All the equipment connected with the technological use of electric power.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:   电子技术设备
Translation:   使用电力技术连接所有设备，


Code:   2634
English Term:  electrotechnical industry
Definition:     A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of machinery, apparatus and supplies for the generation, storage and utilization of electrical energy, such as household appliances, radio and television receiving equipment, and lighting and wiring equipment.&#10;(Source: SIC)
Chinese Term:   电子工业
Translation:     整体经济的一个部门，是从事生产、储存和利用电能的机械、器具、和供给品的设计、制造和行销的商业公司集合；如家用电器、无线电和电视接受设备以及照明设备和配线器材。


Code:   2635
English Term:  element of group 0
Definition:     A group of monatomic gaseous elements forming group 18 (formerly group 0) of the periodic table: helium (He), neon (Ne), argon (Ar), krypton (Kr), xenon (Xe), and radon (Rn).&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term:   零族元素
Translation:   构成周期表第18族（早期被称为0族）的单原子气体，包含：氦、氖、氩、氪、氙、氡。


Code:   2636
English Term:  element of group I (alkaline)
Definition:    Any of the monovalent metals lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, and francium, belonging to group 1A of the periodic table. They are all very reactive and electropositive.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:  第一族元素
Translation:   任何单价金属，如：锂、钠、钾、铷、铯，属于周期表的1A族，反应性高，带正电。


Code:   2637
English Term:   element of group II (alkaline earth metals)
Definition:     Any of the divalent electropositive metals beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, and radium, belonging to group 2A of the periodic table.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:   第二族元素
Translation:   任何带正二价电荷的金属，如：铍、镁、钙、锶、钡、镭属于周期表的第2A族。


Code:   2638
English Term:  element of group III
Definition:     Group III consists of two subgroups: group IIIb and group IIIa. Group IIIa consists of scandium, yttrium, and lanthanium, which is generally considered with the lanthanoids, and actinium, which is classified with the actinoids. Group IIIb, the main group, comprises boron, aluminium, gallium, indium, and thallium.&#10;(Source: CHSK)
Chinese Term:   第三族元素
Translation:    第三族元素，包含两个子族：3b和3a族。3a族包含通常被归为镧系的钪、钇、镧和是属于辐射性元素的锕。3b族包含硼、铝、镓、铟、铊。


Code:   2639
English Term:  element of group IV
Definition:     Group IV consists of two subgroups: group IVb, main group, and group IVa. Group IVa consists of titanium, zirconium, and hafnium which are generally classified as transition metals. The main group consists of carbonium, silicium, germanium, tin, and lead. The main valency of the elements is IV, and the members of the group show a variation from nonmetallic to metallic behaviour in moving down the group. The reactivity of the elements increases down the group from carbon to lead. All react with oxygen on heating.&#10;(Source: CHSK)
Chinese Term:   第四族元素
Translation:    第四族元素，包含两个子族：主族4b及4a族。4a族包含通常被归为过渡金属元素的钛、锆和铪。4b族包含碳、硅、锗、锡、和铅。主要的价数是4价。此族排列从上方的非金属元素至下方的金属元素。元素的反应性由碳至铅递增，且所有元素皆可与氧在加热状况下反应。


Code:   2640
English Term:  element of group V
Definition:     Group V consists of two subgroups: group Vb, the main group, and group Va. Group Va consists of vanadium, niobium, and tantalum, which are generally considered with the transition elements. The main group consists of nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic, antimony, and bismuth.
Chinese Term:  第五族元素
Translation:    第五族元素，包含两个子族：主族56及5a族。5a族包含钒、铌和钽，通常被归为过渡金属元素。主族5b包含氮、磷、砷、锑和铋。


Code:   2641
English Term:  element of group VI
Definition:     Group VI consists of two subgroups: group VIb, the main group, and group VIa. Group VIa consists of chromium, molybdenum, and tungsten. The main group consists of oxygen, sulphur, selenium, tellurium, and polonium.&#10;(Source: CHSK)
Chinese Term:  第六族元素
Translation:   第六族元素包含两个子族：主族6b及6a族。6a族包含铬、钼、和钨。主族6b族包含氧、硫、硒、碲、和钋。


Code:   2642
English Term:   element of group VII
Definition:     Any of the elements of the halogen family, consisting of fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, and astatine.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   第七族元素
Translation:   卤族元素，包含氟、氯、溴、碘、砹。


Code:   2651
English Term:  emancipation
Definition:     The state of being free from social or political restraint or from the inhibition of moral or social conventions.
Chinese Term:  解放
Translation:   从社会、政策的约束，道德或社会习俗禁止下获得自由的状态。


Code:   2653
English Term:  embryo
Definition:    An early stage of development in multicellular organisms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   胚胎
Translation:   多细胞生物体发育的早期阶段。


Code:   2654
English Term:  embryogenesis
Definition:     The formation and development of an embryo from an egg.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  胚胎形成
Translation:    由卵形成并发育成胚胎。


Code:   2655
English Term:  emergency law
Definition:
Chinese Term:  紧急法
Translation:


Code:  14082
English Term:   emergency lodging
Definition:     Housing or dwelling space provided for victims of a sudden, urgent and usually unexpected occurrence, especially when harm has been done to human life, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   紧急收容所
Translation:   为突发、紧急且通常是意外事件的受害者提供的房屋和住处，特别是当人类生命、财产和环境遭到危害时。


Code:   2656
English Term:  emergency plan
Definition:     Program of procedures to be undertaken in the event of a sudden, urgent and usually unexpected occurrence requiring immediate action, especially an incident of potential harm to human life, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   紧急计划
Translation:    为在突发经济且通常是意外发生而需要立即行动的实践中所采取的行动计划，特别是在可能危害人类生命、财产或环境的事件。


Code:   2657
English Term:  emergency relief
Definition:     Money, food or other assistance provided for those surviving a sudden and usually unexpected occurrence requiring immediate action, especially an incident of potential harm to human life, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   紧急救助
Translation:    为了解决一个突发的、急迫的以及平常意想不到的事件所准备的金钱、事物或其他支援。特别是当此事件对人类生命、财产或环境具有潜在性威胁时。


Code:   2658
English Term:  emergency relief measure
Definition:
Chinese Term:  紧急救助措施
Translation:


Code:   2661
English Term:  emergency shelter
Definition:     Shelter given to persons who are deprived of the essential needs of life following a disaster.&#10;(Source: GUNNa)
Chinese Term:   紧急避难所
Translation:   在灾难之后提供给已失去基本生活所需的人们使用的避难所。


Code:   2663
English Term:  emission
Definition:     A discharge of particulate gaseous, or soluble waste material/pollution into the air from a polluting source.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:  排放
Translation:    气态、可溶性废弃物质或污染物的微粒子从污染源排放到空气中。


Code:   2665
English Term:  emission control
Definition:     Procedures aiming at reducing or preventing the harm caused by atmospheric emissions.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   排放管制
Translation:    旨在降低或防止大气排放而造成危害的程序。


Code:   2666
English Term:  emission data
Definition:     Data concerning pollutants released into the environment from a permanent or mobile installation or from products.&#10;(Source: AZENP)
Chinese Term:   排放数据
Translation:   有关固定污染源、移动装置或产品中释放到环境中的污染物的数据。


Code:   2667
English Term:  emission factor
Definition:     The relationship between the amount of pollutants produced to the amount of raw materials processed, or fuel consumed, in any polluting process.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  排放系数
Translation:   污染产生的过程中，污染物的数量与原料的使用量或者燃料的消耗量之间的关系。


Code:   2668
English Term:  emission forecast
Definition:     The final step in a clean air plan is to predict future air quality to demonstrate that we can (if we can) meet the health standards by implementing the measures proposed in the plan. This is done by first projecting the emission inventory into the future, taking into account changes in population, housing, employment in specific business sectors, and vehicle miles traveled. These data are obtained from various sources and the resulting emissions are adjusted to account for regulations and control measures scheduled for implementation during the same time period. Additional adjustments are made to reflect large facilities that are expected to start up, modify, or shut down. The resulting inventory is an emission forecast, and is usually expressed in tons per day of particular pollutants for a given year. Additional steps may be required to determine how the forecasted quantities of air pollution will affect the overall air quality. One way to accomplish this is through computer modeling. A computer model simulates how pollutants disperse, react, and move in the air. The inputs to such a computer model are complex. They include weather patterns, terrain, and the chemical nature of air pollutants.&#10;(Source: APCD)
Chinese Term:   排放预测
Translation:    空气清洁计划的最后一个步骤是去预测未来空气质量以证明通过执行计划中提出的检测措施，我们可以符合健康的标准。首先从预测未来的排放清单开始，考虑人口、居住、每一商业部门的工作雇用情形以及车行里程的变化。这些资料是由不同的渠道获得，最终的排放量计算必须根据法令和相同时段中控制方法的执行情况做调整。大型工厂的增设、变更或关闭必须进行额外调整。最终的排放清单是一个排放量的预测结果，通常以一年中每天排放若干吨来表示。另外，必须确定空气污染的预测量对于整体空气质量的影响，可利用计算机模型达成这一目标。计算机模型可模拟污染物如何在空气中扩散、反应及运动，但所需输入的资料相当复杂，包含气候型态、地形、和空气污染物的化学性质。


Code:   2670
English Term:  emission reduction
Definition:     The act or process of limiting or restricting the discharge of pollutants or contaminants, such as by setting emission limits or by modifying the emission source.&#10;(Source: EEN)
Chinese Term:  排放减量
Translation:   对污染物的排放进行减量或限制的过程或行动，例如设立排放限制，改善排放源等。


Code:   2671
English Term:   emission reduction banking
Definition:     A system for recording qualified air emission reductions for later use in bubble, offset, or netting transactions. Plant complexes that reduce emissions substantially may "bank" their "credits" or sell them to other industries.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term:   排放减量交易
Translation:     记录未来使用于污染计划、排放抵消或交易网中合格空气排放减量的系统。工厂因减少排放量而“配额”可被“存储”起来或者出售给其他工业。


Code:   2672
English Term:  emission register
Definition:    A listing, by source, of the amounts of air pollutants discharged in the atmosphere of a community daily.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:   排放注册
Translation:   依照污染源的类别，将每日排入社区大气中的空气污染物排放量进行列表记录。


Code:   2673
English Term:  emission situation
Definition:
Chinese Term:  排放状况
Translation:


Code:   2674
English Term:   emission source
Definition:     A chemical process, building, furnace, plant or other entity responsible for the discharge of pollutants or contaminants into the environment.&#10;(Source: DES / DEP)
Chinese Term:  排放源
Translation:   向环境中排放污染物的化学过程、建筑物、燃烧炉、工厂或者其他排放实体。


Code:   2677
English Term:   emission standard
Definition:     The maximum amount of discharge legally allowed from a single source, mobile or stationary.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:   排放标准
Translation:   单一固定或移动污染源法定容许的最大排放量。


Code:   2679
English Term:   emission to water
Definition:     The discharge of solid, liquid or gaseous pollutants or contaminants into a body of water.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term:   水排放
Translation:   将固态、液态或气态污染物排放至水体中。


Code:   2683
English Term:  employment
Definition:     The work or occupation in which a person is employed.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:  职业
Translation:   被聘雇的工作或者职业。


Code:   2684
English Term:  employment and environment
Definition:     Issues or initiatives pertaining to the inter-relationship between ecological concerns and the economics of employment, including sustained, environmentally safe development; the effect of environmental activism on jobs; and the creation of environmental occupations.&#10;(Source: WAE)
Chinese Term:   职业和环境
Translation:   生态与经济间相互关系的议题或行为，包含持久性的环境安全发展、环境对职业的影响和环保职业的创立。


Code:   2687
English Term:   employment level effect
Definition:     The result or impact of a specific policy, action or event upon the number of working-age persons holding jobs in a specific region, nation or sector of the economy.&#10;(Source: ODE / RHW)
Chinese Term:   职业级别效应
Translation:    一个特别的政策、行动或事件，对特定区域、国家或经济部门中，工作人员的冲击或结果。


Code:   13338
English Term:   employment structure
Definition:     The organization and proportions of the various job types and skill levels in an enterprise or economy.&#10;(Source: LAB)
Chinese Term:   职业结构
Translation:   一个企业或经济体中，不同工作形态与技术水准的比例和结构。


Code:   2689
English Term:   emulsification
Definition:     The process of dispersing one liquid in a second immiscible liquid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:    乳化作用
Translation:     液体在另一个不相容液体中散布的过程。


Code:   2691
English Term:   emulsion
Definition:     A stable dispersion of one liquid in a second immiscible liquid, such as milk (oil dispersed in water).&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   乳化
Translation:   液体稳定的扩散于另一种不相容的液体。例如牛奶或油扩散于水中。


Code:   2693
English Term:  encapsulation
Definition:     The enclosure of any polluting product with a material that prevents its release in the environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:  密封
Translation:   用一种材料将污染物密封起来以防止泄漏到环境中。


Code:   2696
English Term:   encyclopaedia
Definition:     A comprehensive, often multivolume, reference work containing articles on a wide rage of subjects or on various aspects of a particular field, usually, alphabetically arranged.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:   百科全书
Translation:   广泛性的，通常是多卷的参考著作。包含各种主题或不同特定领域的文章，一般按照字母顺序排列。


Code:   2697
English Term:   endangered animal species
Definition:     Animals, birds, fish or other living organisms threatened with extinction by natural or human-induced changes in their environment.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  濒临绝种动物
Translation:    因为自然或人为改变生存环境，有灭绝威胁的动物、鸟类、鱼类或其他生命有机体。


Code:   2700
English Term:   endangered plant species
Definition:   The plants threatened with extinction by human or natural changes in the environment.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:  濒临绝种植物
Translation:     因为自然或人为改变生存环境，有灭绝危险的植物。


Code:   2702
English Term:   endangered species(IUCN)
Definition:    One of the three degrees of "rarity" drawn up by the International Union for the Conservation of Natural Resources. All plants and animals in these categories need special protection. Endangered species are those species in danger of extinction unless steps are taken to change the cause of threat and decline.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term:   濒临绝种物种
Translation:    国际自然资源保护联盟总结的三种“稀有”程度中的一种，在此分类下的所有动植物均需要特殊保护，除非采取措施来改变物种受威胁和减少的原因，否则濒临物种是有灭绝危险的物种。


Code:   10562
English Term:   endemic species
Definition:    Species native to, and restricted to, a particular geographical region.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:  地方品种
Translation:    自然出现并且只出现在特定的区域的物种。


Code:   2705
English Term:   endocrine system
Definition:    The chemical coordinating system in animals, that is, the endocrine glands that produce hormones.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  内分泌系统
Translation:    动物体中化学的调节系统，也就是生产荷尔蒙的内分泌腺。


Code:   2706
English Term:  endocrinology
Definition:    The study of the endocrine glands and the hormones that they synthesize and secrete.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   内分泌学
Translation:    指内分泌腺的研究，和内分泌腺合成与分泌的荷尔蒙的研究。


Code:   2707
English Term:   end-of-pipe technology
Definition:    An approach to pollution control which concentrates upon effluent treatment or filtration prior to discharge into the environment, as opposed to making changes in the process giving rise to the wastes.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:   管末处理技术
Translation:    一种污染控制的方法，与在产生废弃物过程中进行处理不同，该方法强调在将污染物排放到外界环境前处理或者过滤流出物。


Code:   2712
English Term:   energy
Definition:    The capacity to do work; involving thermal energy (heat), radiant energy (light), kinetic energy (motion) or chemical energy; measured in joules.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:  能源
Translation:    作功的能力，包含热能（热）、辐射能（光）、动能（移动）或者化学能，以焦耳为测量单位。


Code:   2713
English Term:   energy balance
Definition:    The energetic state of a system at any given time.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  能量守恒
Translation:    在任何时间，系统的能量状态。


Code:   2714
English Term:   energy conservation
Definition:    The strategy for reducing energy requirements per unit of industrial output or individual well-being without affecting the progress of socio-economic development or causing disruption in life style. In temperate developed countries most energy is used in heating and lighting industrial and domestic buildings. Industrial processes, transport and agriculture are the other main users. During the 1970s it was demonstrated that substantial savings could be achieved through appropriate building technologies and the use of energy-efficient equipment for heating, air-conditioning and lighting. Most goods could and should be both manufactured and made to work more efficiently.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:   节约能源
Translation:    在不影响社会经济发展或造成生活状况混乱的前提下，减少每单位工业产值或个人健康相关的能源需求所采取的策略。在一般发达国家中，大部分的能源用于工业和家庭建筑的暖气和照明。工业过程、运输和农业是其他的主要能源消耗者。19世纪70年代证实，通过适当的建筑技术和使用高能源效能的暖气、空调和照明设备，可以节省可观的能源。大部分产品可以而且应该以更加有效的方式制造和使用。


Code:   2715
English Term:   energy consumption
Definition:    Amount of energy consumed by a person or an apparatus shown as a unit.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:   能源消耗
Translation:    人或者设备所消耗的单位能源。


Code:   2716
English Term:   energy conversion
Definition:    The process of changing energy from one form to another.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:  能源转换
Translation:    能源从某种形式转换成另一种形式的过程。


Code:   2718
English Term:   energy demand
Definition:
Chinese Term:  能源需求
Translation:


Code:   2720
English Term:   energy dissipation
Definition:    Any loss of energy, generally by conversion into heat.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   能源耗损
Translation:    能源的损耗，通常被转换成热能。


Code:   2722
English Term:   energy distribution system
Definition:    Any publicly or privately organized setup in which usable power such as electricity is delivered to homes and businesses.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  能量分配系统
Translation:    任何公有或者私人所组织设计的系统，用以输送可用的电力到家庭和商业机构。


Code:   2723
English Term:   energy economics
Definition:    The production, distribution, and consumption of usable power such as fossil fuel, electricity, or solar radiation.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   能源经济
Translation:    石化燃料、电力、太阳辐射等可利用动力的生产、分配、消费等行为。


Code:   2724
English Term:   energy efficiency
Definition:    Refers to actions to save fuels by better building design, the modification of production processes, better selection of road vehicles and transport policies, the adoption of district heating schemes in conjunction with electrical power generation, and the use of domestic insulation and double glazing in homes.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:   能源效率
Translation:    经由较好的建筑设计、产品的修改、较好的道路车辆选择和运输策略、由电厂提供的附近地区的热能和家中隔热和双层玻璃的使用等行为，以达到节省能源的目的。


Code:   13213
English Term:   energy industry
Definition:    Industry which converts various types of fuels as well as solar, water, tidal, and geothermal energy into other energy forms for a variety of household, commercial, transportation, and industrial application.&#10;(Source: PZ)
Chinese Term:  能源工业
Translation:     将太阳能、水能、潮汐能和地热能等各种形式的能源转变为其他形式能源的工业。它被广泛的用于家庭、农业、交通和工业上。


Code:   2792
English Term:   energy legislation
Definition:
Chinese Term:  能源法
Translation:


Code:   2730
English Term:   energy management
Definition:    The administration or handling of power derived from sources such as fossil fuel, electricity and solar radiation.&#10;(Source: RHW / FFD)
Chinese Term:  能源管理
Translation:    对来自石化燃料、电力以及太阳辐射的能源所进行的管理或处理。


Code:   2731
English Term:   energy market
Definition:    The trade or traffic of energy sources treated as a commodity (such as fossil fuel, electricity, or solar radiation).&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:
Translation:


Code:   2733
English Term:   energy policy
Definition:    A statement of a country's intentions in the energy sector.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term:   能源政策
Translation:    国家在能源部门的意向说明。


Code:   2734
English Term:   energy process
Definition:    Any natural phenomenon or series of actions by which energy is converted or made more usable.&#10;(Source: MES)
Chinese Term:  能源过程
Translation:  将能源转化或变成更有用处的任何自然现象或者一系列的反应。


Code:   2735
English Term:   energy production
Definition:    Generation of energy in a coal fired power station, in an oil fired power station, in a nuclear power station, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:  能源生产
Translation:    在燃煤发电厂、燃油发电厂和核能发电厂等产生的能源。


Code:   2736
English Term:   energy recovery
Definition:    A form of resource recovery in which the organic fraction of waste is converted to some form of usable energy. Recovery may be achieved through the combustion of processed or raw refuse to produce steam through the pyrolysis of refuse to produce oil or gas; and through the anaerobic digestion of organic wastes to produce methane gas.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:  能源回收
Translation:    能量回收的一种方式，将废弃物中的有机物部分转换为可使用的能量。回收可以经由燃耗或者垃圾经由热解以产生油或气体，然后通过厌氧消化有机物产生甲烷气体来实现。


Code:   2738
English Term:   energy resource
Definition:    Potential supplies of energy which have not yet been used (such as coal lying in the ground, solar heat, wind power, geothermal power, etc.).&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:   能量源
Translation:    尚未被使用但有可能是能量的潜在来源。（例如地壳中的煤、太阳能、风力、地热等）


Code:   2740
English Term:   energy saving
Definition:    Avoiding wasting energy.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:  能源节约
Translation:    避免浪费能源。


Code:   2741
English Term:   energy source
Definition:    Potential supplies of energy including fossil and nuclear fuels as well as solar, water, wind, tidal and geothermal power.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:   能源
Translation:    化石、核能、太阳、水、风、潮汐和地热等皆可作为能量的潜在来源。


Code:   2742
English Term:   energy source material
Definition:    Sources from which energy can be obtained to provide heat, light, and power. Energy resources, including fossil and nuclear fuels as well as solar, water, tidal and geothermal energy, may be captured or recovered and converted into other energy forms for a variety of household, commercial, transportation, and industrial applications.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term:  能源原料
Translation:     可以获得能量以提供热、光、和力的来源。可作为能源物质包括石化燃料、核能、太阳能、水里、潮汐和地热，这些能源可以被转换为其他的形式以供应许多家庭、商业、交通和工业的使用。


Code:   2744
English Term:   energy storage
Definition:    Amount of energy reserves; often refers to the stocks of non-renewable fuel, such as oil, which a nation, for example, possesses.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:   能源储存
Translation:     储存大量能源，常指那些不可再生资源的储存，例如石油占有国对石油的占有。


Code:   2746
English Term:   energy supply
Definition:    The provision and storage of energy (the capacity to do work or produce a change), or the amount of energy stored, for the use of a municipality, or other energy user.&#10;(Source: ISEP / FFD)
Chinese Term:   能源供应
Translation:    能源的供给和储存（用于作功或产生改变的能力），或用于城市需求或其他能源使用者。


Code:   2747
English Term:   energy technology
Definition:
Chinese Term:  能源技术
Translation:


Code:   2748
English Term:   energy type
Definition:    According to the source, energy can be classified as hydroenergy, solar energy, tidal energy, wind energy, waves energy, geothermal energy, etc.. According to the type of fuel used for its production, energy can be classified as nuclear energy, coal derived energy, petroleum derived energy, biomass derived energy, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   能源类型
Translation:    根据能量的来源，能量可以区分为水力、太阳能、潮汐、风力、海浪、地热等。根据燃料产生能量之形式，能源可以区分为核能、燃煤能、石油能、生质能等。


Code:   2749
English Term:   energy utilisation
Definition:    No definition needed.
Chinese Term:   能源利用
Translation:

Code:   2751
English Term:   energy utilisation pattern
Definition:
Chinese Term:  能源利用形式
Translation:


Code:   2753
English Term:   enforcement
Definition:    The execution, carrying out or putting into effect an order, regulation, law or official decree.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term:  执行
Translation:    贯彻或者实施秩序、规章、法律或者官方法令。


Code:   2754
English Term:   engine
Definition:    A machine in which power is applied to do work by the conversion of various forms of energy into mechanical force and motion.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   发动机
Translation:    借助将各种形式的能量转变为机械能并运转，从而使得动能能应用于做功的机器。


Code:   12586
English Term:   engineering
Definition:    The science by which the properties of matter and the sources of power in nature are made useful to humans in structures, machines, and products.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:   工程学
Translation:    在建筑物、机器和产品方面，研究对人类有用的事物特性以及自然能量来源的科学。


Code:   11272
English Term:   engineering work
Definition:    No definition needed.
Chinese Term:   工程工作
Translation:    无需定义


Code:   10228
English Term:   English garden
Definition:    A plot of ground consisting of an orderly and balanced arrangement of masses of flowers, shrubs and trees, following British traditions or style.&#10;(Source: CBO)
Chinese Term:   英式花园
Translation:     使用大量花卉、灌木或树木，依序均衡安排而成的场地，具有英国的传统或者形式。


Code:   2755
English Term:   enlargement policy
Definition:
Chinese Term:   扩展政策
Translation:


Code:   2756
English Term:  enlargement programme
Definition:
Chinese Term:  扩展编程
Translation:


Code:   2758
English Term:   enriched uranium
Definition:    Uranium whose concentration of uranium-235, which is able to sustain a nuclear chain reaction, is increased by removing uranium-238.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:   浓缩铀
Translation:    移除铀中的铀-238，以增加铀-235所占比例，只有铀-235可维持核链连锁反应。


Code:   2759
English Term:   enrichment
Definition:   The process of increasing the abundance of a specified isotope in a mixture of isotopes. It is usually applied to an increase in the proportion of U-235, or the addition of Pu-239 to natural uranium for use in a nuclear reactor or weapon.&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term:   浓缩
Translation:     在混合的同位素中增加某一特定的同位素含量的过程。通常应用于增加铀-235的含量，或将钸-239加入天然铀中，以便用于核子反应器或武器中。


Code:   11852
English Term:   enterovirus
Definition:    Any of a subgroup of the picornaviruses infecting the gastrointestinal tract and discharged in feces, including coxsackieviruses, echoviruses, and polioviruses; may be involved in respiratory disease, meningitis, and neurological disease.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:   肠病毒
Translation:    任何肠胃道与排泄物的病毒传染，包含可沙奇病毒，伊科病毒和小儿麻痹病毒。也可能存在于呼吸疾病，脑膜炎和神经疾病。

Code:   2944
English Term:   environment
Definition:    A concept which includes all aspects of the surroundings of humanity, affecting individuals and social groupings. The European Union has defined the environment as "the combination of elements whose complex interrelationships make up the settings, the surroundings and the conditions of life of the individual and of society, as they are or as they are felt". The environment thus includes the built environment, the natural environment and all natural resources, including air, land and water. It also includes the surroundings of the workplace.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:   环境
Translation:    一个包括关于人类周围事物、影响个体和社会组织所有方面的概念。欧盟把环境定义为“复杂的交互关系拼凑的设置、个体或者组织生活的周围事物、条件的本身和它的感觉的元素组合体”。环境包括建筑环境、自然环境和所有自然资源，包括空气、土地和水。它也包括周围的工作场所。


Code:   2943
English Term:   environment friendly
Definition:    Human activities, enterprises or products that reinforce rather than undermine the integrity of the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: FLG)
Chinese Term:   环境友好
Translation:     人类活动、事业或生产能健全强化生态系统而非造成损害。


Code:   11071
English Term:   environment market
Definition:
Chinese Term:   环境市场
Translation:


Code:   2766
English Term:   environmental accident
Definition:    An unexpected occurrence, failure or loss, with the potential for harming the ecosystem or natural resources.&#10;(Source: TOE / HMD)
Chinese Term:   环境事故
Translation:     可能危害生态系统或自然资源的突发事件、食物或损失。


Code:   2767
English Term:   environmental accounting
Definition:
Chinese Term:   环境会计账
Translation:


Code:   10012
English Term:   environmental administration institution
Definition:    A central government organization that has authority or oversight over government activity relating to the preservation and safeguarding of ecological or natural resources.&#10;(Source: BLD / TOE)
Chinese Term:   环境行政管理机关
Translation:     中央政府中具有监督政府有关生态系统或自然资源维持与保护行动权利的组织。


Code:   10191
English Term:   environmental analysis
Definition:    No definition needed.
Chinese Term:   环境分析
Translation:    无需定义


Code:   2771
English Term:   environmental anxiety
Definition:
Chinese Term:   环境紧张
Translation:


Code:   2773
English Term:   environmental aspect of human settlements
Definition:    Human settlements have an adverse impact on many ecosystems and on themselves by the addition of toxic or harmful substances to the outer lithosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere. The major types of environmental pollutants are sewage, trace metals, petroleum hydrocarbons, synthetic organic compounds, and gaseous emissions. Most, if not all, of the additions of potentially harmful substances to the environment are result of the population growth and the technological advances of industrial societies.&#10;(Source: PARCORa)
Chinese Term:  人类居住环境方面
Translation:    人类定居对生态系统以及自身造成不利影响，会向岩石圈、水圈和大气圈中释放有毒物质。环境污染物的主要类型为污水、重金属、石油碳氢化合物、合成有机化合物和气状污染物。大部分对环境有潜在危害的物质增加是由于人口增长以及工业社会结束进步所引起的。


Code:   2774
English Term:   environmental assessment
Definition:    The evaluation or appraisal of ecological or natural resources.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  环境评估
Translation:    对生态或自然资源的评价或者评估。


Code:   2775
English Term:   environmental assessment criterion
Definition:    Principle or standard for the evaluation or appraisal of ecological or natural resources.&#10;(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term:  环境评估准则
Translation:  对生态或自然资源评价或者评估的原则或标准。


Code:   2776
English Term:   environmental auditing
Definition:    An assessment of the nature and extent of any harm or detriment, or any possible harm or detriment, that may be inflicted on any aspect of the environment by any activity process, development programme, or any product, chemical, or waste substance. Audits may be designed to: verify or otherwise comply with environmental requirements; evaluate the effectiveness of existing environmental management systems; assess risks generally; or assist in planning for future improvements in environment protection and pollution control&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:   环境稽核
Translation:     在活动过程、发展方案或任何产品、化学物质、废弃物会对环境造成的可能危害或损伤所进行的评估。审计可以用来：证实或符合环境需求；评价现在环境管理系统的效果；评估风险或协助未来环境保护和污染控制的规划。


Code:   2778
English Term:   environmental awareness
Definition:    The growth and development of awareness, understanding and consciousness toward the biophysical environment and its problems, including human interactions and effects. Thinking "ecologically" or in terms of an ecological consciousness.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:   环境意识
Translation:     对于生物物理环境以及其问题的意识、理解和认知的提升与发展，包括人类的互动和影响。以“生态学”的思维或者根据生态意识来思考问题。


Code:   2779
English Term:   environmental balance
Definition:    Final part of the environmental impact study and assessment which compares environmental costs and benefits on the basis of homogeneous criteria.&#10;(Source: AMBPIAa)
Chinese Term:   环境平衡
Translation:    在相同的基准上，比较环境的成本和效益后对环境影响的研究和评估。


Code:   2782
English Term:   environmental change
Definition:    Changes that may take place in ecosystems, climate, soil, habitats, etc. due to pressures of various origin.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   环境变化
Translation:     在物种多样性的压力下，生态系统、气候、土壤或者栖息地等发生的变化。


Code:   2783
English Term:   environmental chemicals legislation
Definition:
Chinese Term:  环境化学品法规
Translation:


Code:   2784
English Term:   environmental chemistry
Definition:    Science dealing with the physical, chemical and biochemical processes that polluting substances undergo when introduced in the environment.&#10;(Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term:   环境化学
Translation:    关于污染物产生进入环境后所经历的物理、化学和生化程序的科学。


Code:   10255
English Term:   environmental citizenship
Definition:    The state, character or behavior of a person viewed as a member of the ecosystem with attendant rights and responsibilities, especially the responsibility to maintain ecological integrity and the right to exist in a healthy environment.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term:   环境公民权
Translation:    被视为生态系统成员而具有服务权和责任的个人地位、特性或者行为，特别是保持生态完整性与生存与健康环境的权利。


Code:   2786
English Term:   environmental compatibility
Definition:    Condition of products or projects of having a reduced impact or burden on the natural environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   环境相容性
Translation:    可降低对自然环境的影响或负荷的计划或产品条件。


Code:   2789
English Term:   environmental consequence
Definition:    Resultant of natural or man-made perturbations of the physical, chemical or biological components making up the environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:  环境结果
Translation:    由于自然或人为的扰动对构成环境的物理、化学或生物成分的影响结果。


Code:   2790
English Term:   environmental conservation
Definition:    Efforts and activities to maintain and sustain those attributes in natural and urban environments which are essential both to human physical and mental health and to enjoyment of life.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:   环境保护
Translation:    维护和保持为人类身心健康、愉快生活所必须的自然和都市环境的努力和活动。


Code:   2793
English Term:   environmental contingency planning
Definition:    The production of an organized, programmatic and coordinated course of action to be followed in the case of some accident, disaster or occurrence threatening an ecosystem and the human health or natural resources within it.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境意外事故规划
Translation:   在发生可能威胁某生态系统以及其中的人类健康或自然资源的意外事故、灾难或事件时，可以遵循的有组织性、纲领性和协调性行动方针的规划。


Code:   2795
English Term:   environmental control
Definition:    Protection of the environment through policies concerning the control of wastes, the improvement of the human-made environment, the protection of heritage values, the institution of national parks and reserves, the protection of fauna and flora, the conservation of forests and landscapes, etc.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term:  环境控制
Translation:    通过政策对有关废弃物控制、人为环境改善、遗址价值保护、国家公园和保护区、动植物保护区、森林和景观保留设置等方面的环境保护。


Code:   2796
English Term:   environmental cost
Definition:    Expenses incurred as a result of some violation of ecological integrity either by an enterprise that implements a program to rectify the situation, or by society or the ecosystem as a whole when no person or enterprise is held liable.&#10;(Source: IEC / ECH)
Chinese Term:  环境成本
Translation:    某企业、整体社会或者生态系统，为改正一些违反生态完整性状况，在没有人或者企业为此承担法律责任时而实施的某种计划所产生的费用。


Code:   2797
English Term:   environmental crime
Definition:    Unlawful acts against the environment, such as water contamination, hazardous waste disposal, air contamination, unpermitted installation of plants, oil spills, etc.&#10;(Source: AZENPa)
Chinese Term:  环境犯罪
Translation:     指不利于环境的非法行为，例如水污染、有害废弃物处置、空气污染、未经允许的设厂或油品泄漏等。


Code:   2798
English Term:   environmental criminal law
Definition:   The aggregate of statutory enactments pertaining to actions or instances of ecological negligence deemed injurious to public welfare or government interests and legally prohibited.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  环境犯罪法
Translation:    有关被视为危害大众福利或政府利益以及法律上被禁止等生态疏忽行为或实例的法定条文集。

Code:   5809
English Term:   environmental criminality
Definition:    Unlawful acts against the environment, such as water contamination, hazardous waste disposal, air contamination, unpermitted installation of plants, oil spills, etc.&#10;(Source: AZENPa)
Chinese Term:   环境罪行
Translation:   指不利于环境的非法行为，例如水污染、有害废弃物处置、空气污染、未经允许的设厂或油品泄漏等。


Code:   2799
English Term:   environmental criterion
Definition:    Standards of physical, chemical or biological (but sometimes including social, aesthetic, etc.) components that define a given quality of an environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:   环境准则
Translation:    定义环境质量所需的物理、化学或生物（有时候包括社会、美学等）组成成分的标准。


Code:   2801
English Term:   environmental culture
Definition:    The total of learned behavior, attitudes, practices and knowledge that a society has with respect to maintaining or protecting its natural resources, the ecosystem and all other external conditions affecting human life.&#10;(Source: ANT / TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境文化
Translation:    一个社会要维护或保护自然资源、生态系统和其他影响人类生活的外部条件时，所需要的学习行为、态度、实践和知识。


Code:   2802
English Term:   environmental damage
Definition:    Harm done to the environment, e.g. loss of wetlands, pollution of rivers, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:  环境损害
Translation:    对环境造成的危害，如湿地的消失、河流的污染等。


Code:   2803
English Term:   environmental data
Definition:    Information concerning the state or condition of the environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:  环境数据
Translation:    有关环境状态或状况的信息。


Code:   2805
English Term:   environmental development
Definition:    The growth, progress or advancement in matters of ecological concern.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:  环境发展
Translation:    有关生态方面的成长、进步或提升。


Code:   2938
English Term:   environmental economic valuation
Definition:    The assessment, evaluation, or appraisal of business performance in matters involving ecology and finances.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:  环境经济评估
Translation:    涉及生态和财政的商业绩效评估、评量或评价。


Code:   2811
English Term:   environmental economics
Definition:    A recognized field of specialization in the discipline of Economics that embraces the issues of pollution control and environment protection, in which costs and benefits are difficult or impossible to estimate, much of the subject matter falling outside the competitive market system. Yet, it is an area in which immense common property resources need to be allocated sensibly to the overall public good. The subject is also very much concerned with ways and means to achieve this sensible allocation such as emission and effluent charges, user charges for the treatment or disposal of waste, environmental taxes, product charges, deposit refunds, tradeable pollution rights, performance bonds, natural resource accounting, and the economic implications of sustainable development.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:   环境经济学
Translation:    经济学学科中的一个专业领域，包括污染控制和环境保护问题，其中的成本与效益难以估计，大部分议题超出了竞争性市场体系范围。然而，它正是一个需要将大量公共财产资源合理分配以求大众福利的领域。 主题也需要考虑到此种合理分配的方法与策略，例如对空气污染以及废水污染排放的收费、废弃物处理会处置使用收费、环境税、产品收费、押金退款、污染排放交易权、绩效公债、自然资源的会计决算以及可持续发展的经济意义。


Code:   13184
English Term:   environmental economics of firms
Definition:    The use of financial resources for the purpose of incorporating ecological principles in the operations of businesses and companies.&#10;(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term:   公司的环境经济
Translation:    指企业和公司为了将生态准则整合于用做工程中所使用的金融资源。


Code:   2810
English Term:   environmental economy issue
Definition:    A matter of public importance involving both a community's or a country's management of financial resources and its protection of natural resources.&#10;(Source: RHW / OED)
Chinese Term:  环境经济议题
Translation:    指有关于一个国家或社会的财政资源管理或自然资源保护的重要公共事务。


Code:   2814
English Term:   environmental education
Definition:  The educational process that deals with the human interrelationships with the environment and that utilizes an interdisciplinary problem-solving approach with value clarification. Concerned with education progress of knowledge, understanding, attitudes, skills, and commitment for environmental problems and considerations. The need for environmental education is continuous, because each new generation needs to learn conservation for itself.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:  环境教育
Translation:    有关人类和环境相互关系的教育过程，使用跨领域知识解决问题的方法并强调价值观。有关解决环境问题所需的知识、理解、态度、技能和责任的教育过程。每个新生代都需要学会保护自己的环境，因此对环境教育的需求是不间断的。


Code:   10133
English Term:   environmental engineering
Definition:    Branch of engineering concerned with the environment and its proper management. The major environmental engineering disciplines regard water supply, wastewater, stormwater, solid waste, hazardous waste, noise radiology, industrial hygiene, oceanography and the like.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term:  环境工程
Translation:    工程学的分支，涉及环境及其合适的管理。环境工程的主要内容注重给水、污水、暴雨、固体废弃物、危害性废弃物、噪音辐射、工业卫生及海洋学等。


Code:   2817
English Term:   environmental enterprise
Definition:    Organisations that are specialized in providing advice on environmental matters, for example investigation and remediation of potentially polluted land, water and air, and in the evaluation of environmental impacts; they employ professionals with the qualifications of engineering, geology, chemistry, hydrogeology, landscaping, environmental economics, etc.&#10;(Source: GRAHAWa)
Chinese Term:   环境企业
Translation:     一种专门为环境问题提供建议的组织，例如调查和补救潜在的土壤、水、空气污染以及进行环境影响评估。聘请具有工程学、地质学、化学、水文地质、景观美化以及环境经济学方面的专家等。


Code:   2818
English Term:   environmental ethics
Definition:    An ecological conscience or moral that reflects a commitment and responsibility toward the environment, including plants and animals as well as present and future generations of people. Oriented toward human societies living in harmony with the natural world on which they depend for survival and well being.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:   环境伦理
Translation:    反应对环境的承诺与责任的一种生态意识和道德，包括植物、动物以及现在、未来世代的人类，它的导向促成人类社会与人类赖以生存发展的自然世界和谐发展。


Code:   2870
English Term:   environmental friendly procurement
Definition:    The process of obtaining products and services which are favorably disposed toward the environment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  环境友好型采购
Translation:    易于被环境接受的生产和服务过程。


Code:   2821
English Term:   environmental fund
Definition:    Financial resources set aside for measures involving ecological maintenance or the protection, defense, or shelter of natural resources.&#10;(Source: ISEP / OED)
Chinese Term:  环境基金
Translation:    为了生态维护或自然资源的保护、防护或庇护等措施所拨出的财政资源。


Code:   2823
English Term:   environmental hazard
Definition:    A physical or chemical agent capable of causing harm to the ecosystem or natural resources.
Chinese Term:   环境危害物&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:    能够导致危害生态系统或自然资源的物理或化学物质。


Code:   2824
English Term:   environmental health
Definition:    The art and science of the protection of good health, the prevention of disease and injury through the control of positive environmental factors, and the reduction of potential physical, biological, chemical and radiological hazards.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:  环境健康
Translation:     维护良好健康的技术和科学，透过控制环境中有益因子来预防疾病、伤害和潜在的物理、生物、化学与放射性危害。


Code:   2825
English Term:   environmental health hazard
Definition:    Any physical, chemical or other agent capable of causing harm to the interrelationship between humans and the surrounding external conditions, threatening both human well-being and ecological integrity.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:   环境健康危害
Translation:    任何会导致伤害人类和外在环境的相互关系，危害人类健康与生态健全的物理的、化学的或其他的因素。


Code:   2826
English Term:   environmental health impact assessment
Definition:    Assessment of impacts caused by an action on the health conditions of a population.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:  环境健康影响评估
Translation:    人类行为对于特定族群健康状况的影响评估。


Code:   2827
English Term:   environmental health protection
Definition:    Measures or devices designed to reduce the risk of harm to human health posed by pollutants or other threatening conditions in the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境卫生保护
Translation:    为减少生态系统中的污染物或其他威胁人类健康危害的风险所设计的测量或装置。


Code:   2828
English Term:   environmental history
Definition:    A systematic and chronological account of past events and conditions relating to the ecosystem, its natural resources or, more generally, the external factors surrounding and affecting human life.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:   环境历史
Translation:    有系统的、按年代次序记载的历史事件和情况，涉及生态系统、自然资源或者人类周围影响人类生活的外部因素。


Code:   2829
English Term:   environmental impact
Definition:    Any alteration of environmental conditions or creation of a new set of environmental conditions, adverse or beneficial, caused or induced by the action or set of actions under consideration.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:   环境冲击
Translation:    因为某活动或某系列活动而导致或诱发任何可能有利、有害的环境状态的改变，或者新的环境的建立。


Code:   2830
English Term:   environmental impact assessment
Definition:    Analysis and judgement of the effects upon the environment, both temporary and permanent, of a significant development or project. It must also consider the social consequences and alternative actions.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term:   环境影响评估
Translation:    对环境的重大进展或方案的临时性和永久性分析与判断。必须考虑社会因果关系和可选行为。


Code:   2831
English Term:   environmental impact of agriculture
Definition:    Agricultural activities have significant impacts on water quality, including increases in stream sedimentation from erosion, and increases in nutrients, pesticides, and salt concentrations in runoff. In certain regions, the misuse of pesticides has led to the development of pesticide-resistant strains of pests, destroyed natural predators, killed local wildlife, and contaminated human water supplies. Improper application of fertilizers has changed the types of vegetation and fish types inhabiting nearby waterways and rivers.&#10;(Source: RAU / WPR)
Chinese Term:  农业环境影响
Translation:    农业活动对水质的显著影响，包含因侵蚀而增加溪流的沉降，径流中营养盐、农药和盐类浓度的增加。某些特定地区，因杀虫剂的不当使用，已产生具有抗药性的昆虫、毁害自然捕食者、造成当地野生动物死亡，并污染人类的水源供给。不当的使用肥料已经改变了栖息在邻近水道与河川的鱼类和植物型态。


Code:   2832
English Term:   environmental impact of aquaculture
Definition:    Fish farming pollutes the water with nutrients, methane and hydrogen sulphide which threaten both farmed fish and other marine life. Dangerous pesticides have been used to treat infestations of sea lice.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:   水产养殖环境影响
Translation:    鱼类养殖所产生的营养盐、甲烷与硫化氢污染了水体，对养殖鱼类与其它水中生物造成的威胁。危害性的杀虫剂已经被用于处理海虱的侵扰。


Code:   2833
English Term:   environmental impact of energy
Definition:    Energy and environmental problems are closely related, since it is nearly impossible to produce, transport, or consume energy without significant environmental impact. The environmental problems directly related to energy production and consumption include air pollution, water pollution, thermal pollution, and solid waste disposal. The emission of air pollutants from fossil fuel combustion is the major cause of urban air pollution. Diverse water pollution problems are associated with energy usage. One major problem is oil spills. In all petroleum-handling operations, there is a finite probability of spilling oil either on the earth or in a body of water. Coal mining can also pollute water. Changes in groundwater flow produced by mining operations often bring otherwise unpolluted waters into contact with certain mineral materials which are leached from the soil and produce an acid mine drainage. Solid waste is also a by-product of some forms of energy usage. Coal mining requires the removal of large quantities of earth as well as coal. In general, environmental problems increase with energy use and this combined with the limited energy resource base is the crux of the energy crisis. An energy impact assessment should compare these costs with the benefits to be derived from energy use.&#10;(Source: RAU)
Chinese Term:  能源环境冲击
Translation:    能源和环境问题息息相关，因为若要生产、运输或消耗能量而不造成严重的环境冲击是几乎不可能的。环境问题直接与能源的生产和消耗有关，包含空气污染、水污染、热污染和固废弃置。石化燃料燃烧所产生的空气污染物的排放是主要都市空气污染的原因。各样的水污染问题是与能源使用有关联的。 其中主要的问题是石油泄漏。在所有石油的处理操作中，有可能在土地上或水体中发生泄漏。采煤也会污染水体。采矿作业时改变地下水的水流，使得未污染的水与某种矿物（这些矿物是被土壤所过滤出来的）接触而产生酸性的矿物排放水。固体废弃物也是能源使用后的副产产物。

Code:   2834
English Term:   environmental impact of fishing
Definition:    Fishing may have various negative effects on the environment: effluent and waste from fish farms may damage wild fish, seals, and shellfish. Fish farmers use tiny quantities of highly toxic chemicals to kill lice: one overdose could be devastating. So-called by-catches, or the incidental taking of non-commercial species in drift nets, trawling operations and long line fishing is responsible for the death of large marine animals and one factor in the threatened extinction of some species. Some fishing techniques, like the drift nets, yield not only tons of fish but kill millions of birds, whales and seals and catch millions of fish not intended. Small net holes often capture juvenile fish who never have a chance to reproduce. Some forms of equipment destroy natural habitats, for example bottom trawling may destroy natural reefs. Other destructive techniques are illegal dynamite and cyanide fishing.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:  渔业的环境冲击
Translation:    渔业对环境有各种负面的影响：从养渔场排放出的废弃物和放流水可能对野生鱼类、海豹和贝类造成危害。养渔业者使用少量高毒性的化学物质来杀死虱子：一旦过量即会造成灾害。使用拖网常捕获非商业性鱼类，其排钩操作和长线捕鱼的方式是造成大型海洋动物和濒临绝种动物死亡的原因之一。有些捕鱼技术，如拖网，不但捕得吨计的鱼获，更杀死数以百万的鸟类、鲸鱼、海豹、和意外捕捉到的鱼类；小小的网孔经常补捉到尚未成长、还未来得及繁殖的幼鱼。 有些设备也破坏了自然栖息地，如拖网的底部可能破坏自然礁石。其他破坏性的技术如非法炸鱼和用氰化物毒鱼。


Code:   2835
English Term:   environmental impact of forestry
Definition:    The world's forestry resources are shrinking at an alarming rate. The need for foreign exchange encourages many developing countries to cut timber faster than forests can be regenerated. This overcutting not only depletes the resource that underpins the world timber trade, it causes loss of forest-based livelihoods, increases soil erosion and downstream flooding, and accelerates the loss of species and genetic resources.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:  林业环境冲击
Translation:    世界的森林资源正以惊人的速率缩小。因与外国交易上的需要，许多开发中国家其林木砍伐的速率高于造林的速率。这些过度的砍伐不仅耗尽支持国际木材交易的森林资源，也造成倚赖森林维生的生物死亡，且增加土壤的侵蚀和下游的水患，也加速物种和基因资源的消失。


Code:   2836
English Term:   environmental impact of households
Definition:    Household impacts on the environment include domestic heating emissions (hot air, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, water vapour and oxide of nitrogen, sulphur and other trace gases); domestic sewage consisting of human bodily discharges, water from kitchens, bathrooms and laundries; the dumping of bulky wastes such as old washing machines, refrigerators, cars and other objects that will not fit into the standard dustbin and which are often dumped about the countryside, etc.&#10;(Source: WPR / GILP96)
Chinese Term:   家庭环境冲击
Translation:     家庭对环境的冲击包含家庭的热排放(热空气、二氧化碳、一氧化碳、水蒸气和氮氧化物、硫氧化物和其它微量气体)；家庭污水含有人体排泄物、厨房污水、浴室和洗衣废水；大型废弃物，如洗衣机、冰箱、汽车和其它物体等不适合投放在标准垃圾箱的废弃物，这些大型废弃物经常被弃置在乡间。


Code:   2837
English Term:   environmental impact of industry
Definition:    The effects on the environment connected with industrial activities are mainly related to the production of industrial wastes that can be divided into various types: solid waste, such as dust particles or slag from coal; liquid wastes from various processes, including radioactive coolants from power stations; and gas wastes, largely produced by the chemical industry.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:  工业环境冲击
Translation:    工业活动对环境的影响主要与工业废弃物之产生有关，其中废弃物可分成数种形式：固体废弃物，如微尘或由煤产生的熔渣；各种过程中产生的废液，包括电厂的辐射冷却水；以及气体废弃物，主要由化学工厂产生。


Code:   2838
English Term:   environmental impact of recreation
Definition:    Recreation and tourism are often accompanied by extensive damage to the environment. Aquatic ecosystems are particularly vulnerable to the effects of an increased tourist trade and the resultant building of hotel accommodations, sewage disposal works, roads, car parks and landing jetties on banks and coastlines; and the increased angling, swimming, water skiing, shooting or use of motor-boats in the water body. These all produce direct deleterious effects when conducted on a massive scale, including shore damage, chemical changes in the water, and sediments and biological changes in the plant and animal communities.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:  休闲环境冲击
Translation:    休闲和旅游总伴随着对环境的过度伤害。水生生态系统尤其易被持续增加的旅游业和伴随的旅馆、污水、道路、停车场和在河岸和海岸线上的防波堤所影响；以及在水体中增加的垂钓、游泳、划水、打猎、和水上船只。当规模渐大时，这些活动都会产生直接危害，包括海岸危害、改变水中和沉积物中的化学成分以及对于植物和动物群落的改变。


Code:   2839
English Term:   environmental impact of tourism
Definition:    Extensive damage to the environment caused by recreation and tourism, including despoiling of coastlines by construction of tourist facilities; pollution of the sea; loss of historic buildings to make way for tourist facilities; loss of agricultural land for airport development, etc.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term:   观光环境冲击
Translation:    由休闲和观光对环境造成的广泛伤害，包括为建设游客设施而掠夺海岸；污染海洋；移除古迹以建设游客设施、变更农地以建设机场等。


Code:   2840
English Term:   environmental impact of transport
Definition:    Impact of transportation-related activities on the environment, in particular, those impacts dealing with air pollution, noise, displacement of people and businesses, disruption of wildlife habitats, and overall growth-inducing effects.&#10;(Source: RAU)
Chinese Term:  运输环境冲击
Translation:    运输相关活动对环境的冲击，特别是有关空气污染、噪音污染、人们和商业的迁移、野生栖息地的破坏以及整体发展所导致的影响。


Code:   2841
English Term:   environmental impact statement
Definition:    A detailed statement which, to the fullest extent possible, identifies and analyses, among other things, the anticipated environmental impact of a proposed action and discusses how the adverse effects will be mitigated.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:  环境影响说明书
Translation:    一份详细的说明，最大程度的鉴别和分析提出的行动预案对环境的预期影响，并讨论如何减轻不利的影响。


Code:   2844
English Term:   environmental impact study
Definition:    Survey conducted to ascertain the conditions of a site prior to the realization of a project, to analyze its possible impacts and compensative measures.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   环境影响调查
Translation:    计划专案展开前对确定的场所状况所进行的调查，用以分析计划可能带来的冲击和可采取的补救措施。


Code:   2845
English Term:   environmental incentive
Definition:
Chinese Term:  环境动机
Translation:


Code:   2848
English Term:   environmental index
Definition:    An index of available environmental articles from 1972 to present; also known as Environmental Abstract Annual.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:  环境索引
Translation:    自1972年迄今，可用的环境文章索引，也称为环境摘要年报。


Code:   2847
English Term:   environmental indicator
Definition:    A measurement, statistic or value that provides a proximate gauge or evidence of the effects of environmental management programs or of the state or condition of the environment.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term:   环境指标
Translation:    一种测量、统计或数值用以提供环境管理方案影响或者环境现况、状态的度量以及证据。


Code:   2849
English Term:   environmental industry
Definition:    Industries involved in the development of cleaner technologies, waste and wastewater treatment, recycling processes, biotechnology processes, catalysts, membranes, desulphurisation plants, noise reduction, and the manufacture of other products having an environment protection purpose.&#10;(Source: DOBRIS)
Chinese Term:   环境工业
Translation:     包括发展清洁工艺技术、废物和废水处理、循环程序、生物工艺过程、催化剂、薄膜、脱硫工厂、噪音消除和其他为达到包换环境目的的产品制造工业。


Code:   2850
English Term:   environmental informatics
Definition:    Science and techniques of data elaboration and of computer processing of information concerning ecosystems and ecology.&#10;(Source: ISEP / TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境资讯学
Translation:    有关生态系统以及生态学的资料解释和信息处理的科学和技术。


Code:   2851
English Term:   environmental information
Definition:    Knowledge communicated or received concerning any aspect of the ecosystem, the natural resources within it or, more generally, the external factors surrounding and affecting human life.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境信息
Translation:    与各种生态系统的内涵、自然资源或者围绕和影响人类人类生活的外部因素有关的或从中取得的知识。


Code:   2852
English Term:   environmental information network
Definition:    A system of interrelated persons and devices linked to permit the exchange of data or knowledge concerning natural resources, human health and other ecological matters.&#10;(Source: ISEP / TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境信息网络
Translation:    通过不同的人或者设备的连接，提供有关于自然资源、人类监控以及其他的生态资料或知识的交流。


Code:   2853
English Term:   environmental information system
Definition:    A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources designed to exchange data or knowledge concerning any aspect of the ecosystem, the natural resources within or, more generally, the external factors surrounding and affecting human life.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term:  环境信息系统
Translation:    协调和整合人、设备以及其他资源以用于有关生态系统、自然资源或人类周围影响人类生活的外部因素的资料或信息系统。


Code:   2856
English Term:   environmental investment
Definition:    Securities held for the production of income in the form of interest and dividends with the aim of benefitting the environment.&#10;(Source: ISEP / EFP)
Chinese Term:  环境投资
Translation:    以环境利益为目的而持有的证券，用利息和红利作为收入的形式。


Code:   2859
English Term:   environmental law
Definition:    A wide spectrum of options from binding "hard" laws, such as international treaties and national legislation, to "soft" laws, covering guiding principles, recommended practices and procedures, and standards. Environmental law also attempts to reconcile international considerations with concerns that focus on very specific problems such as soil degradation, marine pollution or the depletion of non-renewable resources.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:   环境法
Translation:    结合了从像国际协议与国家立法这样的“硬性”法规到涵括导引原则、履行与程序建议及标准等这样的“软性”法规的一种选择范围广泛的法律。环境法试图调解国际上对于土壤退化、海洋污染或不可再生资源耗损等等特定问题的关注焦点。


Code:  2860
English Term:   environmental law enforcement
Definition:    Any variety of activities associated with promoting compliance and obedience to those binding rules of a state that have been promulgated to safeguard ecological integrity, preserve natural resources and protect human health.&#10;(Source: BLD / TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境法令执行
Translation:    为了督促承诺和履行保护生态健全、保护自然安全和人类健康所公布的规章的各种行动。


Code:   2862
English Term:   environmental legislation
Definition:    Branch of law relating to pollution control; national parks, wildlife, fauna and flora, wilderness and biodiversity; environmental and occupational health; environmental planning; heritage conservation and a large number of international conventions relating to the environment.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:  环境法令
Translation:    法律的一种，和污染控制、国家公园、动植物生物多样性、环境与职业健康、环境规划、栖息地保护和诸多环境公约相关的法律。


Code:   2863
English Term:   environmental legislation on agriculture
Definition:    A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate any aspect of farm and livestock production that poses a threat to ecological integrity and human health, especially the use of pesticides, fertilizers and land.&#10;(Source: TOE / BLD)
Chinese Term:  农业环境法规
Translation:    政府为规范任何对生态完整性以及人体健康造成威胁的农场和牲畜产品而定的必须遵守的规则和法体，特别是在农药、肥料以及土地的使用方面。


Code:   2864
English Term:   environmental legislative process
Definition:    The systematic course of proceedings in which a bill that would preserve or protect ecological resources may be enacted as a law.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:   环境立法程序
Translation:    可以保护或保存生态资源的法案被制定成为法律的会议系统性程序。


Code:   2865
English Term:   environmental liability
Definition:    The penalty to be paid by an organization for the damage caused by pollution and restoration necessary as a result of that damage, whether by accidental spillages from tankers, industrial waste discharges into waterways or land, or deliberate or accidental release of radioactive materials.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:   环境责任
Translation:    某个组织为其产生的污染所造成的破坏以及必要的恢复工作所应负担的罚款。包括油轮意外泄漏、排放工业废弃物到河道、土地或者有意无意的放射性物质弃置等行为。


Code:   2866
English Term:   environmental licence
Definition:    A governmental license or grant that allows and regulates an enterprise's discharge of air pollutants, typically from a commercial or industrial plant.&#10;(Source: BLD / TOE)
Chinese Term:   环境许可
Translation:    政府允许和管理企业空气污染物的排放执照或许可，而别是对商业或者工业厂址。


Code:   2877
English Term:   environmental management
Definition:    Measures and controls which are directed at environmental conservation, the rational and sustainable allocation and utilization of natural resources, the optimization of interrelations between society and the environment, and the improvement of human welfare for present and future generations.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:  环境管理
Translation:    针对环境保育、合理以及永续性的自然资源分配和使用、社会与环境之间互动的最佳化以及现在和未来时代的人类福祉的改善所进行的方法与控制。


Code:   2880
English Term:   environmental medicine
Definition:    The art and science of the protection of good health, the promotion of aesthetic values, the prevention of disease and injury through the control of positive environmental factors, and the reduction of potential physical, biological, chemical, and radiological hazards.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:   环境医学
Translation:    透过控制积极的环境因素和减少潜在的物理、无、化学和放射性危害的方法来保护良好健康、提升审美价值、避免疾病与伤害的艺术与科学。


Code:   2881
English Term:   environmental misconduct
Definition:
Chinese Term:   环境处理不当
Translation:


Code:   2882
English Term:   environmental monitoring
Definition:    Periodic and/or continued measuring, evaluating, and determining environmental parameters and/or pollution levels in order to prevent negative and damaging effects to the environment. Also include the forecasting of possible changes in ecosystem and/or the biosphere as a whole.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:  环境监控
Translation:    为了防止对环境负面和不好的影响而进行的周期或者持久的测量、评估和对环境参数、污染等级的决定。包括对生态系统或整个生物圈可能变化的预见。


Code:   2884
English Term:   environmental noise
Definition:    The sound and the characteristics of sounds from all sources in the surrounding environment.&#10;(Source: CONFER)
Chinese Term:  环境噪音
Translation:    来自周围环境的污染源的声音和特性。


Code:   10818
English Term:   environmental occupation
Definition:    Gainful employment or job-related activity pertaining to ecological concerns, including the preservation of natural resources and the integrity of the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境工作
Translation:    受雇或工作在与生态相关的活动，包含维护自然资源与健全生态系统。


Code:   2886
English Term:   environmental perception
Definition:    An intuitive recognition or understanding of the ecosystem and its natural resources, often based on human experiences or cultural attitudes or beliefs.&#10;(Source: RHW / HMO)
Chinese Term:   环境知觉
Translation:    在人类经验、文化态度或信仰基础上，对生态系统及自然资源的直觉认知或理解。


Code:   2887
English Term:   environmental performance
Definition:
Chinese Term:   环境绩效
Translation:


Code:   2890
English Term:   environmental plan
Definition:    A formulated or systematic method for the protection of natural or ecological resources.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:   环境计划
Translation:    用公式或者系统表达保护自然或生态资源的的方法。


Code:   2889
English Term:   environmental planning
Definition:    The identification of desirable objectives for the physical environment, including social and economic objectives, and the creation of administrative procedures and programmes to meet those objectives.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:   环境规划
Translation:    确立物理环境中令人满意的目标，包括社会与经济目标以及为了完成这些目标所确立的管理程序和方案。


Code:   2892
English Term:   environmental policy
Definition:    Official statements of principles, intentions, values, and objective which are based on legislation and the governing authority of a state and which serve as a guide for the operations of governmental and private activities in environmental affairs.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:   环境政策
Translation:     基于法律和政府权责的准则、决心、价值和目标的正式声明，被用为政府和私人活动间环境事务处理的一种向导。


Code:   2893
English Term:   environmental policy instrument
Definition:    Technological, economical and legislative measures employed to prevent or control pollution or damage of the environment.&#10;(Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term:  环境政策手段
Translation:    用来防止或控制污染及环境灾害的技术、经济、和法律手段。


Code:   2895
English Term:   environmental pollution
Definition:    The introduction by man into the environment of substances or energy liable to cause hazards to human health, harm to living resources and ecological systems, damage to structure or amenity, or interference with legitimate uses of the environment.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term:   环境污染
Translation:    指人类在环境物质和能量中引起的对人类健康的损害、对生活资源和生态系统的伤害、对结构或者利益的损害或者与合法使用环境的冲突。


Code:   2896
English Term:   environmental priority
Definition:
Chinese Term:  环境优先权
Translation:


Code:   13187
English Term:   environmental problem solving
Definition:    The activity of finding solutions for troublesome or perplexing situations involving ecological or natural resources.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:  环境问题解决
Translation:    找寻关于解决生态及自然资源所面临的困扰或麻烦的活动。


Code:   2897
English Term:   environmental programme
Definition:    An organized group of activities and procedures, often run by a government agency or a nonprofit organization, to protect natural or ecological resources and advocate for ecological progress.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  环境程序
Translation:    具有活跃性和程序性的组织，一般由政府中介或者非营利性组织运行，用来保护自然的和生态学的资源并且提倡生态进步。


Code:   2900
English Term:   environmental protection
Definition:    Measures and controls to prevent damage and degradation of the environment, including the sustainability of its living resources.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:  环境保护
Translation:    防止环境破坏和退化的措施和控制，包括环境中生命资源的永续性。


Code:   2769
English Term:   environmental protection advice
Definition:    Consultations or recommendations given as a guide of action regarding the preservation of ecological integrity and the defense or shelter of natural resources.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:   环境保护建议
Translation:    对于健全生态系统与保护自然资源的行动方针所给予的咨询与建议。


Code:   2901
English Term:   environmental protection agency
Definition:    EPA is the US Government's watchdog agency responsible for controlling the pollution of air and water, pesticides, radiation hazards and noise pollution. The agency is also involved in research to examine the effects of pollution.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:  美国环保署
Translation:    美国环保署监督机构的责任是控制空气与水污染，杀虫剂，辐射危害与噪音污染。该机构也研究污染的影响。


Code:   2902
English Term:   environmental protection association
Definition:    Associations whose object resides in the protection of natural environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:   环境保护协会
Translation:    目标在于保护自然环境的协会。


Code:   2903
English Term:   environmental protection cost
Definition:    The amount of money incurred in the preservation, defense, or shelter of natural resources.&#10;(Source: EFP / OED)
Chinese Term:  环境保护成本
Translation:   自然资源保护、防护或庇护所引起的货币支出量。


Code:   2905
English Term:   environmental protection in the enterprise
Definition:    Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken by non-governmental, business or industrial entities to prevent or reduce harm to the ecosystem and human health.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term:   企业环境保护
Translation:  非政府、商业或产业实体所采取用来防止或减少生态系统和人类健康损害的预防行为、程序或装置。


Code:   2907
English Term:   environmental protection order
Definition:
Chinese Term:  环境保护指令
Translation:


Code:   2908
English Term:   environmental protection organisation
Definition:    A government agency, committee or group that is responsible for preserving and safeguarding ecological or natural resources.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term:  环境保护机关
Translation:  政府机构、委员会或组织，责任是保存与保护生态或自然资源。


Code:   2909
English Term:   environmental protection regulation
Definition:    A government or management prescribed rule for the preservation of natural resources and the prevention of damage or degradation of the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: BLD / ISEP)
Chinese Term:  环境保护法规
Translation:   政府或管理部门为保护自然资源和防止生态破坏或退化所制定的规则。


Code:   2910
English Term:   environmental protection technology
Definition:    Technologies that meet environmental objectives by incorporating pollution prevention concepts in their design. Environmental control strategies introduced in the early design stages of a process, rather than an end-of-pipe control option introduced in the later stages, improve the technical and economic performance of a process.&#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term:   环境保护技术
Translation:    一种结合预防污染来达到环境目标的要求的工艺。不同于后处理控制在晚期才被引入，环境控制策略在该过程的早期就被引入，它提高了该过程的经济性和技术性。


Code:   2911
English Term:   environmental psychology
Definition:    A branch of experimental psychology which studies the relationships between behavior and the environmental context in which it occurs. Environmental psychology's primary focus is the influence of the physical environment and, therefore, much of the research in this area deals with the influences of noise, air pollution, climatic changes, etc.&#10;(Source: JMU)
Chinese Term:   环境心理学
Translation:   实验心理学的分支，研究行为与其所处环境状况的关系。环境心理学主要侧重于物理环境的影响，因此这方面的许多研究是有关噪音、空气污染、气候变化等的影响。


Code:   2912
English Term:   environmental quality
Definition:    Properties and characteristics of the environment, either generalized or local, as they impinge on human beings and other organisms. Environmental quality is a general term which can refer to: varied characteristics such as air and water purity or pollution, noise, access to open space, and the visual effects of buildings, and the potential effects which such characteristics may have on physical and mental health.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:  环境质量
Translation:    当环境作用于人类或其它有机体时的整体性或局部性的特性与特征。环境质量是一般性的名词，意指各种特征，诸如空气和水的纯度或污染程度，进入开放空间的噪音，建筑物的视觉影响以及这些特征对身心健康所造成的潜在影响。


Code: 2913
English Term: environmental quality criterion
Definition: Criteria followed in establishing standards for exposure to pollutants and noise, in respect of pesticides, detergents, composition of effluents, discharge of trade wastes, etc.  &#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 环境品质评判标准
Translation: 评判标准遵循已建立的关于污染物和噪音的暴露程度的标准。他们和农药，洗涤剂，废水的组成，工业废料的排放等相关。(Source: GILP96a)

Code: 2914
English Term: environmental quality objective
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境质量目标
Translation:


Code: 2915
English Term: environmental quality standard
Definition: Normative documents and guidelines for determining the degree of environmental conditions and requirements to avoid negative and damaging effects, influences, and consequences.  &#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 环境质量标准
Translation: 规范化的文档和指导方针，用来决定环境条件和需求的程度，用以避免负面的和毁坏性的影响和后果。(Source: UNUN)

Code: 2917
English Term: environmental report
Definition: An account or statement, usually in writing, describing in detail events, situations or conditions pertaining to the ecosystem, its natural resources or any of the external factors surrounding and affecting human life.  &#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 环境报告
Translation: 一份说明或者声明，通常是书面形式，详细描述了和生态系统相关的事件、情况或者状况，自然资源或者围绕和影响人类生命的外在因素。(Source: TOE)

Code: 2918
English Term: environmental research
Definition: The study of the environment and its modifications caused by human activities.  &#10;(Source: DIFID)
Chinese Term: 环境调查
Translation: 关于环境和由于人类活动发生的环境变化研究。(Source: DIFID)

Code: 2921
English Term: environmental risk
Definition: Likelihood, or probability, of injury, disease, or death resulting from exposure to a potential environmental hazard.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 环境风险
Translation: 由于暴露在潜在环境危害中引起的的伤害，疾病或者死亡的几率或概率。(Source: RRDA)

Code: 2920
English Term: environmental risk assessment
Definition: Qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the risk posed to the environment by the actual or potential presence and/or use of specific pollutants.  &#10;(Source: OPPTIN)
Chinese Term: 环境风险评估
Translation: 对于由于特定污染物的实际风险或者潜在对环境造成的风险的定性和定量的评估。(Source: OPPTIN)

Code: 14717
English Term: environmental sanitation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境公共卫生
Translation:


Code: 2922
English Term: environmental science
Definition: The interdisciplinary study of environmental problems, within the framework of established physical and biological principles, i.e. oriented toward a scientific approach.  &#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 环境科学
Translation: 基于已经建立的生物学和物理学原理，对环境问题进行跨学科研究。也就是以科学方法为方向。(Source: UNUN)

Code: 2923
English Term: environmental security
Definition: Measures taken or policies instituted to protect and promote the safety of external conditions affecting the life, development and survival of an organism.  &#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 环境安全
Translation: 保护和提高有机体生活、发展和生存的外部环境安全性的措施。(Source: TOE)

Code: 2924
English Term: environmental specimen bank
Definition: Places in which selected specimens (fish, mussels, milk, soil sample and human tissue, etc.) are stored without being allowed to decompose.  &#10;(Source: AZENP)
Chinese Term: 环境样本库
Translation: 特定样本（鱼，河蚌，奶，土壤样本和人体组织等）存储而不允许分解的地方。(Source: AZENP)

Code: 2925
English Term: environmental statement (eco-audit)
Definition: Assessment made by a company or organization of the financial benefits and disadvantages to be derived from adopting a more environmentally sound policy.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 环境声明
Translation: 公司或组织对采取一个更可靠环境政策在财政上的利弊做出的评估。(Source: PHC)

Code: 2926
English Term: environmental statistics
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 环境统计
Translation:


Code: 2927
English Term: environmental stock exchange
Definition: The buying, selling, or exchanging of ecological commodities.  &#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 环境证券交易
Translation: 购买，售卖和交换生态产品。(Source: OED)

Code: 12994
English Term: environmental study
Definition: A document submitted by an applicant in support of an undertaking which identifies the environmental impacts of the proposed undertaking and its alternatives.  &#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 环境研究
Translation: 申请者提交的支持项目的文档。文档确认了项目的环境影响和其他可行方案。(Source: LANDY)

Code: 2928
English Term: environmental subsidy
Definition: Payment by a government to assist or improve performance regarding ecological maintenance or the protection, defense, or shelter of natural resources.  &#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 环境津贴
Translation: 政府为帮助或者改善为生态的维护，或者自然资源的保护效能所付的款。(Source: ODE)

Code: 2772
English Term: environmental sustainable architecture
Definition: Environmentally friendly architecture is based on the following five principles: 1) healthful interior environment; 2) energy efficiency; 3) ecologically benign materials; 4) environmental form; 5) good design.  &#10;(Source: ARCH)
Chinese Term: 环境可持续建筑学
Translation: 环境友好建筑学需要基于以下五点原则：1）健康的内部环境；2）有效使用能用；3）良性生态材料；4）自然环境形式；5）好的设计。&#10;(Source: ARCH)

Code: 2929
English Term: environmental target
Definition: Environmental elements of recognized importance which can be modified by the completion of a project.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 环境目标
Translation: 已被认识到重要性的环境元素，他们会因为工程的完成而被修改。(Source: RRDA)

Code: 3757
English Term: environmental tax
Definition: An amount of money demanded by a government to finance clean-up, prevention, reduction, enforcement or educational efforts intended to promote ecological integrity and the conservation of natural resources.  &#10;(Source: ODE / TOE)
Chinese Term: 环境税
Translation: 为了支持改善生态完整性和自然资源的保护，政府展开资金清理、防范、减少、加强或者教育投入等措施而征收的资金。(Source: ODE / TOE)

Code: 2931
English Term: environmental teaching
Definition: Instruction, training or the imparting of knowledge about the external conditions affecting the life, development and survival of organisms, including potential dangers to the ecosystem and the means to maintain its integrity.  &#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 环境教学
Translation: 操作指南，训练或者传授有关外界条件影响有机物生命、 发展和生存的知识。还包括生态系统的潜在危险以及保持它完整性的方法。(Source: TOE / RHW)

Code: 2932
English Term: environmental technology
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境技术
Translation:


Code: 2934
English Term: environmental terminology
Definition: The vocabulary of technical terms and usage appropriate to community, corporate, governmental and other groups concerned with protecting natural resources, preserving the integrity of the ecosystem and safeguarding human health.  &#10;(Source: ISEP /  TOE)
Chinese Term: 环境术语
Translation: 技术词语的词汇表以及对于社区，组织，政府和其他团体合适的用法。与保护自然资源，保持生态系统完整性及保卫人类健康相关。

Code: 2936
English Term: environmental training
Definition: Teaching of specialists and qualified workers who acquire knowledge and skills necessary to solve environmental problems.  &#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 环境训练
Translation: 对那些需要获取知识和技能和以便解决环境问题的专家和合格的工人的培训。

Code: 2940
English Term: environmental vandalism
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境破坏
Translation:


Code: 2941
English Term: environmental warfare
Definition: The direct manipulation or destruction of ecological resources as either a political threat or for actual military advantage.  &#10;(Source: BAS)
Chinese Term: 环境战争
Translation: 对生态资源进行直接破坏或者操纵，用于政治威胁或为了实际军事优势。

Code: 2857
English Term: environmentalism
Definition: 1) Concern for the environment and its protection. &#10;&#10;2) Theory emphasizing the primary influence of the environment on the development of groups or individuals. It stresses the importance of the physical, biological, psychological, or cultural environment as a factor influencing the structure or behaviour of animals, including humans.&#10; &#10;n politics, this has given rise in many countries to Green Parties, which aim to " Preserve the planet and its people".
Chinese Term: 环境主义
Translation: 1)关注环境及其保护&#10;2)强调个体或团体发展对环境的影响的理论。它着重强调了物理，生物，心理或文化环境作为一种因素影响动物包括人类的结构和行为这一观点的重要性。在政治上，这已经引起许多国家绿党的兴起，他们旨在“保护地球和它的人民”。

Code: 2869
English Term: environmentally dangerous substance
Definition: Substance that causes undesirable change in the physical, chemical, or biological characteristics of the air, water, or land that can harmfully affect the health, survival, or activities of human or other living organisms.  &#10;(Source: VIRPURa)
Chinese Term: 环境危险物质
Translation: 对空气，水或土地的物理，化学，生物属性造成不良影响的物质。他们能对人类或其他有生命机体的健康，生存和活动造成有害影响。

Code: 2872
English Term: environmentally friendly management
Definition: Adoption of integrated and preventative management practices aiming at reducing the impacts of industrial and trade activities on the environment; these practices include, among others, life-cycle analysis in the product development cycle, the introduction of clean process technology and measures of waste minimisation.  &#10;(Source: DOBRIS)
Chinese Term: 环境友好管理
Translation: 采取完整的和保护性的管理实践，旨在减少工业和商业活动对环境的影响。这些实践包括在产品开发周期中的生命周期分析，清洁过程技术和污染最小化度量的引进。

Code: 2871
English Term: environmentally friendly product
Definition: Product that is not harmful to the environment.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 环境友好产品
Translation: 对环境无害的产品。

Code: 2873
English Term: environmentally related disease
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境相关疾病
Translation:


Code: 2874
English Term: environmentally responsible behaviour
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境负责行为
Translation:


Code: 2876
English Term: environmentally unfriendly firm
Definition: Firms that do not comply with environmental regulations for the disposal of noxious wastes generated during the production cycle.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 环境不友好工厂
Translation: 在产品生产周期不遵守环境条例，违规处理生产产生的有毒废料工厂。

Code: 2945
English Term: enzyme
Definition: Any of a group of catalytic proteins that are produced by living cells and that mediate and promote the chemical processes of life without themselves being altered or destroyed.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 酶
Translation: 任何一组催化蛋白质，由活细胞产生，促进生命化学过程，自身不会改变或者破坏。

Code: 2947
English Term: epidemic
Definition: A sudden increase in the incidence rate of a disease to a value above normal, affecting large numbers of people and spread over a wide area.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 流行病
Translation: 突然发生，传染率高于普通病症，影响大规模人群，在广泛的范围内传播的疾病。

Code: 2949
English Term: epidemiology
Definition: 1) The study of the mass aspects of disease.&#10; &#10;) The study of the occurrence and distribution of disease and injury specified by person, place, and time.&#10; &#10;(Source: MGH /  KOREN)
Chinese Term: 流行病学
Translation: 1）对疾病的大规模方面的研究。&#10;2）对疾病的发生和分布，以及在特定时间特定地点对人危害的研究。

Code: 12062
English Term: equatorial climate
Definition: Climate characterized by constant temperatures, abundant rainfall and a very short dry season.  &#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term: 赤道气候
Translation: 是具有温度恒定，雨量充足，旱季短暂特点的气候。

Code: 2955
English Term: equine
Definition: Animals belonging to the family of Equidae.  &#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 马
Translation: 马科动物。

Code: 2956
English Term: equipment
Definition: Any collection of materials, supplies or apparatuses stored, furnished or provided for an undertaking or activity.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 设备
Translation: 为任务和活动提供的补给、仪器和材料集合。

Code: 11248
English Term: equipment plan
Definition: A formulated or systematic method for the supply of material necessities such as tools, gear, provisions or furnishings.  &#10;(Source: OED / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 设备计划
Translation: 为提供必需材料，例如工具，器材，补给，装备而采取的公式化或系统化方法。

Code: 2958
English Term: equivalent dose
Definition: A quantity used in radiation protection, expressing all radiation on a common scale for calculating the effective absorbed dose. The unit of dose equivalent is the rem. which is numerically equal to the absorbed dose in rads multiplied by certain modifying factors such as the quality factor, the distribution factor, etc.  &#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 等效剂量
Translation: 放射保护中使用的量，为表达放射量，方便计算有效吸收剂量提供的统一度量。单位是rem。数量上等于1rad辐射下的吸收剂量乘以某些修正因子，例如质量因子，分布因子等。

Code: 2960
English Term: ergonomics
Definition: The study of human capability and psychology in relation to the working environment and the equipment operated by the worker.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 人类工程学
Translation: 研究人类能力和心理学与工作环境，工作器械关系的学科。

Code: 2963
English Term: erosion
Definition: The general process or the group of processes whereby the materials of Earth's crust are loosened , dissolved, or worn away and simultaneously moved from one place to another, by natural agencies, which include weathering, solution, corrosion, and transportation, but usually exclude mass wasting.  &#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 侵蚀
Translation: 地壳物质变松，溶解，磨损以及同时从一个位置移动到另一位置的一组过程或通用过程。由自然中介完成，包括气候变化，溶解，腐蚀，移位，但通常和大规模污染无关。

Code: 2964
English Term: erosion control
Definition: Practices used during construction or other land disturbing activities to reduce or prevent soil erosion. Typical practices include planting of trees and quick growing grass on disturbed areas and other means to slow the movement of water across a disturbed site and trap the soil that does get transported by runoff.  &#10;(Source: YORK)
Chinese Term: 侵蚀控制
Translation: 在建筑或其他对土地干扰的活动中减少或防止土壤侵蚀的实践。典型的实践包括在被干扰的区域种植树木和快速生长的草，以及其他阻止水土流失，固定土壤的方法。

Code: 13275
English Term: estate rental
Definition: The service provided by an owner agreeing to grant the temporary possession of specific housing in return for the payment of rent from the tenant.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 房屋租赁
Translation: 户主准许租户短时间拥有特定房屋而以租金为回报的服务。

Code: 2969
English Term: estuarine biology
Definition: The scientific study or the characteristic life processes of living organisms found in a semi-enclosed coastal body of water which has a free connection with the open sea and within which sea water is measurably diluted with freshwater.  &#10;(Source: WOR / MHE / APD)
Chinese Term: 河口生物学
Translation: 对在半封闭海岸水体的科学研究或生命特征过程研究。该水体可以自由连通到海洋，此处的海水被淡水显著稀释。

Code: 2970
English Term: estuarine conservation area
Definition: Estuarine area which has been reserved by legislation to protect part or all of the enclosed environment for conservation, scientific, educational and/or recreational purposes.  &#10;(Source: ENVAUa)
Chinese Term: 河口保护区
Translation: 为自然保护、科学、教育或者娱乐目的而依法保护部分或全部的封闭环境的河口区域。

Code: 2972
English Term: estuarine ecosystem
Definition:
Chinese Term: 河口生态系统
Translation:


Code: 2973
English Term: estuarine oceanography
Definition: The study of the physical, chemical, biological and geological characteristics of a semi-enclosed coastal body of water which has a free connection with the open sea and within which sea water is measurably diluted with fresh water.  &#10;(Source: MHE / APD)
Chinese Term: 河口海洋学
Translation: 对在半封闭海岸水体的物理，化学，生物和地理特性的研究。该水体可以自由连通到海洋，此处的海水被淡水显著稀释。

Code: 2974
English Term: estuary
Definition: Area at the mouth of a river where it broadens into the sea, and where fresh and sea water intermingle to produce brackish water. The estuarine environment is very rich in wildlife, particularly aquatic, but it is very vulnerable to damage as a result of the actions of humans.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 河口
Translation: 河口区域，此处向海洋开口，淡水和海水混合产生咸淡水。河口环境有丰富的野生生物，特别是水生的。但是由于人类活动很容易受到破坏。

Code: 12183
English Term: estuary pollution
Definition: Contamination of the generally broad portion of a stream near its outlet which is influenced by the tide of the water body into which it flows. Many estuaries have become badly contaminated by wastes that have been generated from heavily populated areas.
Chinese Term: 河口污染
Translation: 在河流出口处附近的大范围的水流污染。此处污染受到水体流入海洋潮汐的影响。许多河口被人口重镇产生的污染物严重污染。

Code: 2977
English Term: etching
Definition: The incision of lines on a plate of metal, glass, or other material by covering it with an acid-resistant coating, scratching through the coating, and then permitting an acid bath to erode exposed parts of the plate.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蚀刻
Translation: 在金属板，玻璃板或者其他材料上割口。在材料上涂上抗酸性保护层，在保护层上雕刻，再将板浸在酸性物质里，使被暴露的部分被酸腐蚀。

Code: 2978
English Term: etching substance
Definition: Substance capable of wearing away the surface of a metal, glass, etc. by chemical action.  &#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 蚀刻物质
Translation: 能磨损金属、玻璃表面（例如发生化学反应）的物质。

Code: 12017
English Term: ethanol
Definition: A colorless liquid, miscible with water, used as a reagent and solvent. Also known as alcohol; ethyl alcohol; grain alcohol.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 乙醇
Translation: 无色液体，与水混溶，可作为试剂和溶剂。也被称作酒精，乙基酒精，谷物酒精。

Code: 2979
English Term: ether
Definition: A colorless liquid, slightly soluble in water; used as a reagent, intermediate, anesthetic, and solvent.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 醚
Translation: 无色液体，微溶于水，可作为试剂，中间产物，麻醉剂和溶剂。

Code: 2980
English Term: ethics
Definition: The philosophical study of the moral value of human conduct and of the rules and principles that ought to govern it.  &#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 伦理
Translation: 对人类表现的道德价值，及约束其准则及规范的哲学研究。

Code: 2982
English Term: ethnology
Definition: The science that deals with the study of the origin, distribution, and relations of races or ethnic groups of mankind.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 人种学
Translation: 人类起源、分布、种族之间关系或部落群体相关的科学。

Code: 2984
English Term: ethology
Definition: The study of animal behaviour in a natural context.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 动物行为学
Translation: 在自然环境下动物行为的研究。

Code: 2989
English Term: EU Council
Definition: The Council of the European Union is an institution which exercises legislative and decision-making powers. At the same time, it is the forum in which the representatives of the Governments of the 15 Member States can assert their interests and try to reach compromises. The Council ensures general coordination of the activities of the European Community, the main objective of which is the establishment of an internal market, i.e. an area without internal frontiers guaranteeing four freedoms of movement - for goods, persons, services and capital - to which should soon be added a single currency. In addition, the Council is responsible for intergovernmental cooperation, in common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and in the areas of justice and home affairs (JHA), including for example matters of immigration and asylum, combating terrorism and drugs and judicial cooperation.  &#10;(Source: UEEU)
Chinese Term: 欧盟理事会
Translation: 欧盟理事会是行使立法和决策的机构。同时，它是15个成员国政府代表的讨论会，可以保证本国利益以及试图达成和解。理事会保证了欧洲共同体之间活动的合作，其主要目的是建立一个内部市场，即一个没有内部界限的区域，保证四种自由流通——商品，人员，服务和资本——以及为了达到此目的将要加入的统一货币。另外，理事会负责公共外交和安全政策，以及区域司法和内政方面的政府间合作，其包括例如移民和政治庇护，对抗恐怖主义和毒品，以及司法合作。

Code: 2991
English Term: Euratom
Definition: A precursor to the European Community, the European Atomic Energy Community was founded in 1958 by the European Common Market to conduct research, develop nuclear energy, create a common market for nuclear fuels and supervise the nuclear industry so as to prevent abuse and protect health.  &#10;(Source: ERD)
Chinese Term: 欧洲原子能组织
Translation: 欧洲共同体的先驱，欧洲原子能组织在1958年由欧洲公共市场建立，旨在组织研究，开发核能，建立核能燃料一个公共市场，并指导核工业，以避免乱用和保护健康。

Code: 2992
English Term: Europe
Definition: The second smallest continent, forming the W extension of Eurasia: the border with Asia runs from the Urals to the Caspian and the Black Sea. The coastline is generally extremely indented and there are several peninsulas (notably Scandinavia, Italy and Iberia) and offshore islands (including the British Isles and Iceland). It contains a series of great mountain systems in the south (Pyrenees, Alps, Apennines, Carpathians, Caucasus), a large central plain, and a N region of lakes and mountains in Scandinavia.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 欧洲
Translation: 世界上第二小的大陆，构成欧亚大陆的W形扩展： 亚洲的边界从乌拉尔到里海和黑海。海岸线基本呈锯齿状，而且有一些半岛（比较著名的如斯堪的纳维亚，意大利和伊比利亚）以及近海的岛屿（包括不列颠群岛和冰岛）。它的南部包含一系列巨大的山脉（比例牛斯，阿尔卑斯，亚平宁，喀尔巴阡，高加索山脉），它包含一个中央平原，以及在斯堪的纳维亚包括一个N形湖泊区域和山脉。

Code: 2993
English Term: European Commission
Definition: The European Union's administrative body, composed of twenty independent members appointed by the Member States for five-year terms and vested with powers of initiative, implementation, management and control according to the mandates established in EU Treaties or handed down by the EU Council.  &#10;(Source: EUR)
Chinese Term: 欧洲委员会
Translation: 欧盟的执行机构，由20个由会员国任命的独立成员组成，任期5年，根据欧盟协定的委任或欧盟理事会下达的指令，赋有主导，执行，管理和控制的权利。

Code: 1669
English Term: European Communities
Definition: The collective body that resulted in 1967 from the merger of the administrative networks of the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM), the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Economic Community (EEC). The singular term has also been widely used.  &#10;(Source: ABDN)
Chinese Term: 欧洲共同体
Translation: 由欧洲原子能委员会，欧洲煤炭和钢铁委员会，和欧洲经济委员会在1967年合并而成的负责管理的联合机构。这个词的单数形式也被广泛使用。

Code: 2996
English Term: European Court of Justice
Definition: The supreme court of The European Union which oversees the application of the EU treaties, decides upon the validity and the meaning of Community legislation and determines whether any act or omission by the European Commission, the Council of Minister or any member state constitutes a breach of Community law.  &#10;(Source: EUEN /  DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 欧洲法院
Translation: 欧盟最高法院，以监督欧盟条约，决定共同体立法的合法性和意义，以及决定是否欧盟委员会、部长理事会或者任何成员国的法案违反了共同体法律。

Code: 2997
English Term: European Environment Agency
Definition: The EEA is being set up to provide the European Community and its member states with objective, reliable and standardized information on the environment. It will assess the success of existing environmental policies and the data will be used to develop new policies for environmental protection measures. It will gather information covering the present, and foreseeable, state of the environment. The priority area are: air quality and emissions; water quality, pollutants and resources; soil quality, flora and fauna, and biotopes; land use and natural resources; waste management; noise pollution; chemicals; and protection of coastal areas. The Agency will also take into account the socio-economics dimension, cover transboundary and international matters, and avoid the duplication of the activities of other bodies.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 欧洲环境局
Translation: 欧洲环境局正在建立，以提供欧洲共同体及其成员国客观、可靠和标准化的环境方面的信息。它评估现有的环境政策的成功与否，数据将被用于开发环保措施的新政策。它收集包括现在和可预见的环境状况的信息。主要的领域有：空气质量和排放；水质，污染物和资源；土壤质量；植物群和动物群以及群落生境；土壤利用和自然资源；废物管理；噪音污染；化学物质；海岸区域的保护。环保局考虑社会-环境方面因素，包括跨界和国际问题，以及防止与其他组织的活动发生重复。

Code: 2998
English Term: European Environmental Council
Definition:
Chinese Term: 欧洲环境局
Translation:


Code: 11045
English Term: European Monetary Fund
Definition: Fund organized by the European Monetary System in which members of the European Community deposit reserves to provide a pool of resources to stabilize exchange rates and to finance balance of payments in support of the pending full European Monetary Union.
Chinese Term: 欧洲货币基金
Translation: 欧洲货币体系组织的基金，欧洲共同体成员储蓄储备以提供一定资金集合，用来稳定汇率和财政收支差额以及支持即将到来的完整欧洲货币联盟。

Code: 13245
English Term: European Monetary System
Definition: An organization established in Europe in 1979 to coordinate financial policy and exchange rates for the continent by running the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) and assisting movement toward a common European currency and a central European bank.  &#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 欧洲货币系统
Translation: 1979年在欧洲建立的组织，其运营的汇率机制，用以协调欧洲大陆金融政策和汇率。它协助走向统一的欧洲货币和欧洲中央银行。

Code: 3000
English Term: European nature reserve
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 欧洲自然保护区
Translation:


Code: 3002
English Term: European Parliament
Definition: Formerly the "Assembly" of EEC. Comprises some 520 "representatives of the peoples" of European Community states, directly elected, and based in Strasbourg. Exercises advisory and supervisory powers; debates and passes resolutions and may veto admission of new member states.  &#10;(Source: CURZON)
Chinese Term: 欧洲议会
Translation: 前身欧洲经济共同体会议。由大约520名欧洲共同体成员国的“人民代表”组成，他们直接选举产生，总部在斯特拉斯堡。履行咨询和监督的权力；辩论和通过的各项决议，并可能否决接纳新会员国。

Code: 11430
English Term: European standard
Definition: A standard which has been approved pursuant to the statutes of the standards bodies with which the Community has concluded agreements.  &#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 欧洲标准
Translation: 遵从已经在欧洲共同体达成协议的标准机构的规则的标准。

Code: 3006
English Term: European Union
Definition: The 15 nations (Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, the UK, Austria, Finland and Sweden) that have joined together to form an economic community with common monetary, political and social aspirations. The EU came into being on 1 November 1993 according to the terms of the Maastricht Treaty; it comprises the three European Communities, extended by the adoption of a common foreign and security policy which requires cooperation between member states in foreign policy and security and cooperation in justice and home affairs.  &#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 欧盟
Translation: 由15国（比利时，丹麦，法国，德国，希腊，爱尔兰，意大利，卢森堡，荷兰，葡萄牙，西班牙，英国，奥地利，芬兰和瑞典）组成，形成一个经济共同体，其有统一的货币，政治和社会愿望。欧盟在1993年11月，根据马斯特里赫特条约的规定形成；它包括3个欧洲共同体，功能扩展到统一外交和安全政策，这需要成员国之间的在外交政策和安全上的合作，以及司法和国内事务方面的合作。

Code: 3007
English Term: eutrophication
Definition: A process of pollution that occurs when a lake or stream becomes over-rich in plant nutrient; as a consequence it becomes overgrown in algae and other aquatic plants. The plants die and decompose. In decomposing the plants rob the water of oxygen and the lake, river or stream becomes lifeless. Nitrate fertilizers which drain from the fields, nutrients from animal wastes and human sewage are the primary causes of eutrophication. They have high biological oxygen demand (BOD).  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 富营养化
Translation: 湖泊或水流过多含有植物营养物质而被污染的过程；其结果是过度生长出藻类和其他水生植物。植物死亡和分解。分解过程中，植物吸取水中的氧气，使得湖泊，河流和水流变得无生命。由田间排放的硝酸盐肥料，动物粪便和人类排泄物中的养分是富营养化的主要原因。他们有很高的氧气需求。

Code: 3011
English Term: evaluation
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 评估
Translation:


Code: 3012
English Term: evaluation criterion
Definition: A standard, norm, value or measurement by which the quantity or quality of a process, object or person's work performance is ascertained through an analysis and judgment of the relevant information in context and in view of established goals, objectives and standards.  &#10;(Source: DAM)
Chinese Term: 评价标准
Translation: 一个标准、规范、价值或测量，通过它们，使得一个过程、目标或者人力效率的质量可以被相关信息（上下文信息和建立的目标视角）分析和评判。

Code: 3013
English Term: evaluation method
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 评估方法
Translation:


Code: 3014
English Term: evaluation of technology
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 技术评估
Translation:


Code: 3019
English Term: evaporation
Definition: Conversion from a liquid or solid state to a vapour.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 蒸发
Translation: 从液态或固态转化为气态。

Code: 3022
English Term: evapotranspiration
Definition: Discharge of water from the earth's surface to the atmosphere by evaporation from lakes, streams and soil surfaces and by transpiration from plants. Also known as fly-off.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蒸散
Translation: 水从地球表面通过蒸发，排放进入大气。来源于湖泊，河流和土壤表面以及植物的蒸腾作用。

Code: 3026
English Term: evolution
Definition: The biological theory or process whereby species of plants and animals change with the passage of time so that their descendants differ from their ancestors, i.e. development from earlier forms by hereditary transmission of slight variations in successive generations.  &#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 进化
Translation: 生物学理论或过程。植物或动物物种随着时间的流逝发生变化，使得他们的后代和他们的祖先不同。即后代从基于前代的基因遗传，但发生少量变化的发展形式。

Code: 3027
English Term: exact science
Definition: Mathematics and other sciences based on calculation.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 精确科学
Translation: 数学或其他基于计算的科学。

Code: 3028
English Term: excavated hole
Definition: A pit, cavity, or other uncovered cutting produced by excavation.  &#10;(Source: BJGEOa)
Chinese Term: 挖掘坑
Translation: 井、洞或其他由挖掘产生的切割。

Code: 3029
English Term: excavation (process)
Definition: The removal of earth from its natural position.  &#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 挖掘（过程）
Translation: 把土从原来的位置移除。

Code: 3031
English Term: excavation heap
Definition: Residue in form of a heap, consisting of earth or other material, produced by excavation.
Chinese Term: 挖掘堆
Translation: 由挖掘产生的残渣组成的堆。由土或其他物质组成。

Code: 7731
English Term: excavation side
Definition: Sloping surface of an excavation.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 挖掘侧
Translation: 挖掘的斜面。

Code: 3032
English Term: excavation site
Definition: The location chosen for an excavation, meaning the act or process of removing soil and/or rock materials by digging, blasting, breaking, loading either at the surface or underground.  &#10;(Source: BJGEOa)
Chinese Term: 挖掘点
Translation: 选择用来挖掘的地点。指在此进行用挖、炸、切断、装载，而移除土壤、岩石材料的过程，可以在地表或地下。

Code: 11051
English Term: exceptional tax
Definition: Compulsory charges levied by a government unit in special or unique instances for the purpose of raising revenue to pay for services or improvements for the general public benefit.  &#10;(Source: EFP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 特别税
Translation: 政府在特殊情况下的强制收费，提高税收来支付服务或改善为广大市民利益的目的。

Code: 3033
English Term: excessive height of chimney stacks
Definition:
Chinese Term: 烟囱高度过高
Translation:


Code: 13247
English Term: exchange policy
Definition: Course of action or procedure by government, business, or an individual concerning trade activities.  &#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 汇率政策
Translation: 由政府、企业和个人的有关贸易活动产生的行为或过程。

Code: 14499
English Term: excise
Definition:
Chinese Term: 消费税
Translation:


Code: 3040
English Term: executive order
Definition: An order or regulation issued by the president or some administrative authority under his direction for the purpose of interpreting, implementing or giving administrative effect to a provision of the constitution or of some law or treaty.
Chinese Term: 行政命令
Translation: 命令或条款，由总统或行政当局在其管理下发布，目的在于解释、执行或给予行政效力，以贯彻宪法或法律或条约的规定。

Code: 3044
English Term: exhaust device
Definition: 1) A duct or pipe through which waste material is emitted.&#10; 2) A combination of components which provides for enclosed flow of exhaust gas from engine parts to the atmosphere. &#10;(Source: AMHER /  LEE)
Chinese Term: 排气装置
Translation: 1）可以让废料通过的管道&#10;2）组件的组合，使得闭合气流从引擎排放至大气

Code: 3045
English Term: exhaust gas
Definition: Offgas produced during combustion processes discharged directly or ultimately to the atmosphere.  &#10;(Source: LEEa)
Chinese Term: 废气
Translation: 燃烧过程产生的烟气，直接或最终排放至大气。

Code: 14872
English Term: exhibit
Definition: A display of an object or collection of objects for general dissemination of information, aesthetic value or entertainment.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 展览品
Translation: 一件或一组物品展出以宣传信息、美学价值或娱乐。

Code: 3047
English Term: existing chemical
Definition: Chemical products existing before 18-09-1981.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 现有化学物质
Translation: 在1981年9月18日之前就存在的化学品。

Code: 3048
English Term: exotic species
Definition: Plants, animals or microorganisms which are introduced by humans into areas where they are not native. Exotics are often associated with negative ecological consequences for native species and the ecosystems.  &#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 外来物种
Translation: 植物、动物或微生物被人类带到了非原生地。外来者通常会对本土物种和生态系统带来生态上的负面影响。

Code: 3049
English Term: expenditure
Definition: Spending by consumers, investors, or government for goods or services.  &#10;(Source: ISEP /  ODE)
Chinese Term: 花费
Translation: 消费者、投资者或政府为商品或服务的花销。

Code: 3050
English Term: experiment
Definition: A test under controlled conditions that is made to demonstrate a known truth, examine the validity of a hypothesis, or determine the efficacy of something previously untried.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 实验
Translation: 在控制条件下进行的测试，目的是证明已知的事实，检查假设的正确性，或者确定以前从未尝试事物的效果。

Code: 11807
English Term: experimental study
Definition: Study based on experimentation.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 实验研究
Translation: 基于实验的研究。

Code: 3054
English Term: expert system
Definition: A computer configuration of hardware and software that simulates the judgment and behavior of a human or an organization with extensive knowledge in a particular field, often by giving answers, solutions or diagnoses.  &#10;(Source: RHW / WIC)
Chinese Term: 专家系统
Translation: 计算机软硬件的配置，模拟人类或组织的判断力和行为，侧重于某一领域的深入知识。一般可以给出答案，解决方案或诊断。

Code: 12096
English Term: exploitation of underground water
Definition: The process of extracting underground water from a source.  &#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 开发地下水
Translation: 从一源头提取地下水的过程。

Code: 3057
English Term: exploration
Definition: The search for economic deposits of minerals, ore, gas, oil, or coal by geological surveys, geophysical prospecting, boreholes and trial pits, or surface or underground headings, drifts, or tunnels.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 勘探
Translation: 寻找矿物、矿石、天然气、石油或者煤储藏的过程。采取地质调查、地球物理勘探、钻井、试验坑、地表或地下的探测、漂移、或打隧道。

Code: 3058
English Term: explosion
Definition: A violent, sudden release of energy resulting from powders or gases undergoing instantaneous ignition or from some other means of detonation, often accompanied by a force producing great amounts of heat, major structural damages, shock waves and flying shrapnel.  &#10;(Source: HMD)
Chinese Term: 爆炸
Translation: 粉末或气体在瞬间引燃，或通过其他的方式引爆而引起的剧烈的突然释放的能量的过程。通常伴随着有巨大热能产生的力、巨大的结构损坏、冲击波和高速碎片。

Code: 3061
English Term: explosive
Definition: A substance, such as trinitrotoluene, or a mixture, such as gunpowder, that is characterized by chemical stability but may be made to undergo rapid chemical change without an outside source of oxygen, whereupon it produces a large quantity of energy generally accompanied by the evolution of hot gases.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 炸药
Translation: 一种物质，如三硝基甲苯，或混合物，如火药。化学性质稳定，但可能在没有外界氧气的情况下发生剧烈的化学变化，产生大量的能量，伴随有大量热气产生。

Code: 3063
English Term: export
Definition: To send, take or carry an article of trade or commerce out of the country. To transport merchandise from one country to another in the course of trade.  &#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 出口
Translation: 送出、搬运商品出国。通过贸易使商品从一国至另一国。

Code: 3064
English Term: export licence
Definition: Permission from a government to carry or send abroad and sell a product manufactured within its borders.  &#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 出口许可证
Translation: 政府的许可，允许运输运送本国生产的商品出国。

Code: 3065
English Term: export of hazardous wastes
Definition: Transporting by-products of society that possesses at least one of four characteristics (ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity, or toxicity) to other countries or areas for the conduct of foreign trade.  &#10;(Source: TOE /  MGHME)
Chinese Term: 出口危险废物
Translation: 通过开展对外贸易，运输社会副产品出国，这些副产品至少有以下四种属性中一种（易燃性，腐蚀性，放射性，毒性）

Code: 3067
English Term: exposure
Definition: The time for which a material is illuminated or irradiated.  &#10;(Source: PITT)
Chinese Term: 暴露
Translation: 一种材料被照射或辐射的时间

Code: 3071
English Term: expropriation
Definition: To deprive an owner of property, especially by taking it for public use.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 征收
Translation: 剥夺拥有权，特别是回收公共使用权。

Code: 3073
English Term: extensive cattle farming
Definition: Farming system practiced in very large farms, characterized by low levels of inputs per unit area of land; in such situations the stocking rate, the number of livestock units per area , is low.  &#10;(Source: GOODa)
Chinese Term: 大范围家畜饲养
Translation: 大范围的农场系统，特点是每单位面积的土地投入水平低，在此情况下，放牧率，每单位面积畜牧业低。

Code: 3079
English Term: externality
Definition: Discrepancies between private costs and social costs or private advantages and social advantages; the basic concept of externality is interdependence without compensation.  &#10;(Source: PHC /  GILP96 /  GREENW)
Chinese Term: 外部性
Translation: 私有花费和社会花费的不一致性，或私有利益和社会利益的不一致性。外部性的基本概念是互相依赖而无须补偿。

Code: 3084
English Term: extinct species  (IUCN)
Definition: Animal or plant species which have completely disappeared from the planet.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 灭绝物种
Translation: 已经从地球上完全消失的动植物。

Code: 3081
English Term: extinction (ecological)
Definition: 1) The complete disappearance of a species of plant or animal from the planet.&#10; 2) Disappearing of animals and plants from the biota.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT /  GREMES)
Chinese Term: 灭绝
Translation: 动植物物种从地球上完全消失；动植物从生态群中消失。

Code: 3087
English Term: extraction
Definition: Any process by which a pure metal is obtained from its ore.  &#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 提纯
Translation: 从矿石中提取纯金属的过程。

Code: 3090
English Term: extractive industry
Definition: Primary activities involved in the extraction of non-renewable resources.  &#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 采掘业
Translation: 主要从事挖掘不可再生资源的活动。

Code: 3097
English Term: fabric
Definition: Any cloth made from yarn or fibres by weaving, knitting, felting, etc.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 织物
Translation: 通过针织，粘结等从纤维制成的纱线或布。

Code: 3099
English Term: factor market
Definition: Significant elements or reasons for an outcome in the buying, selling, and trading of particular goods or services.  &#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 市场因素
Translation: 在购买、销售和特定货物或服务交易中的影响结果的重要因素。

Code: 3103
English Term: factory farming
Definition: The technique of capital intensive animal-raising in an artificial environment, used for chicken, egg, turkey, beef, veal and pork production. Animals are restrained in a controlled indoor environment and their food is brought to them. The building take on the appearance of industrial units.  &#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 大规模室内饲养
Translation: 在人工环境下资本密集型动物养殖。用于鸡肉，鸡蛋，火鸡，牛肉，小牛肉和猪肉的生产。动物被限制在控制室环境里，被喂食。建筑物的外观呈现工业单元。

Code: 3106
English Term: faecal bacterium
Definition: Bacteria contained in human and animal faeces.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 粪便细菌
Translation: 人和动物粪便中包含的细菌。

Code: 3110
English Term: fallout
Definition: The descent of airborne solid or liquid particles to the ground, which occurs when the speed at which they fall due to gravity exceeds that of any upward motion of the air surrounding them.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 坠尘
Translation: 空气中的固体或液体颗粒下降到地面，由重力引起的向下速度超过周围空气的向上运动产生。

Code: 3113
English Term: fallow area
Definition: Land area normally used for crop production but left unsown for one or more growing seasons.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 休耕地区
Translation: 通常用于作物生产的土地，但却一个或多个生长季节没有播种。

Code: 3115
English Term: fallow land
Definition: Arable land not under rotation that is set at rest for a period of time ranging from one to five years before it is cultivated again, or land usually under permanent crops, meadows or pastures, which is not being used for that purpose for a period of at least one year. Arable land which is normally used for the cultivation of temporary crops but which is temporarily used for grazing is included.  &#10;(Source: ECEST)
Chinese Term: 休耕地
Translation: 耕地不再耕种，休息一至五年时间，然后才再耕种；或者土地用于种植作物，草场或牧场，但停止耕种至少一年。通常用于耕种临时作物的土地，临时用于放牧的也包括在内。

Code: 3117
English Term: family
Definition: A group comprising parents, offsprings and others closely related or associated with them.  &#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 家庭
Translation: 由双亲，后嗣和其他近亲组成的群体。

Code: 13271
English Term: family law
Definition: Branch of specialty of law, also denominated "domestic relations" law, concerned with such subjects as adoption, annulment, divorce, separation, paternity, custody, support and child care.  &#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 家庭法
Translation: 法律的特殊分支，也被称为“亲属法”，关注诸如领养，判决，离婚，分居，父子关系，监护，支持，和小孩照顾。

Code: 3119
English Term: family planning
Definition: The control of the number of children in a family and of the intervals between them, especially by the use of contraceptives.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 计划生育
Translation: 限制家庭的小孩数，限制生小孩时间间隔，特别是以使用避孕药的方式来完成的。

Code: 3120
English Term: famine
Definition: A severe shortage of food, as through crop failure or over population. It may be due to poor harvests following drought, floods, earthquake, war, social conflict, etc.  &#10;(Source: CED /  GUNN)
Chinese Term: 饥荒
Translation: 粮食严重短缺，由作物欠收或者人口过量造成。可能由于干旱、洪水、地震、战争、社会冲突等过后的欠收引起。

Code: 3130
English Term: farm
Definition: Any tract of land or building used for agricultural purposes, such as for raising crops and livestock.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 农场
Translation: 任何土地或建筑地带，用于农业目的，例如饲养农作物和牲畜。

Code: 3122
English Term: farm animal
Definition: Animals reared in farms for working and producing food such as meat, eggs and milk.  &#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 家畜
Translation: 为生产如肉，蛋，奶等食品而饲养在农场的动物。

Code: 3123
English Term: farm building
Definition: The dwelling on a farm as distinguished from utility buildings as a barn, corncrib, milk house.  &#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 农村建筑
Translation: 农场里的住宅，区别于功用型建筑，如谷仓，玉米仓，牛奶房。

Code: 13254
English Term: farm price
Definition: The amount of money or monetary rate at which agricultural goods and services can be bought or sold.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 农产品价格
Translation: 可以买卖的农业产品和农业服务价格或货币汇率。

Code: 11170
English Term: farming technique
Definition: The business, art, or skill of agriculture.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 农业技术
Translation: 农业的商业、艺术或技能。

Code: 12006
English Term: fast reactor
Definition: Nuclear reactor which produces more fissile material than it consumes, using fast-moving neutrons and making plutonium-239 from uranium-238, thereby increasing the reactor's efficiency.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 快速反应堆
Translation: 其产生可裂变材料的量比其消耗量大的核反应堆，使用快速移动的中子，用铀-238产生钚239，从而提高反应堆的效率。

Code: 3133
English Term: fast traffic
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 快速运输
Translation:


Code: 10154
English Term: fault
Definition: A fracture or a zone of fractures along which there has been displacement of the sides relative to one another parallel to the fracture.  &#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 断裂
Translation: 断裂或一个区域的断裂，沿着裂痕的本来平行边发生移位。

Code: 3138
English Term: fauna
Definition: The entire animal life of a given region, habitat or geological stratum.  &#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 动物群
Translation: 某一区域、栖息地或地质层的动物的生活。

Code: 6999
English Term: fauna restoration
Definition: The process of returning wildlife ecosystems and habitats to their original conditions.  &#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 动物群重建
Translation: 还原野生动物生态系统和原生存环境的过程。

Code: 3143
English Term: federal authority
Definition: The power of a central government agency or its administrators to carry out the terms of the law creating the agency as well as to administer and implement regulations, laws and government policies.  &#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 联邦权力
Translation: 一个中央政府机构或者其管理人员的权力，履行该机构的条例，同时管理和实施规章，法律和政府政策。

Code: 3144
English Term: federal government
Definition: A system in which a country or nation formed by a union or confederation of independent states is governed by a central authority or organization.  &#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 联邦政府
Translation: 国家由独立州联邦，并由中央权利机关管理的制度。

Code: 3147
English Term: federal law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules established by a government that has been constituted as a union of independent political units or states.  &#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 联邦法律
Translation: 由独立州或独立政治单位组成的政府所颁布的具有约束力法律或条文。

Code: 3149
English Term: fee
Definition: A charge fixed by law for services of public officers or for use of a privilege under control of government.  &#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 费
Translation: 由法律规定的收费，用于支付公职人员服务或者用于政府管辖内的使用

Code: 3151
English Term: feeding of animals
Definition: The act and effect of supplying animals with food.  &#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 动物饲养
Translation: 给动物喂食的动作和效果。

Code: 10976
English Term: feeling for nature
Definition: A consciousness, sensibility or sympathetic perception of the physical world and its scenery in their uncultivated state.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 感受自然
Translation: 对未开垦物质世界及其景色的一种感知、感受或赞同的意识。

Code: 10381
English Term: felid
Definition: Predatory mammal, including cats, lions, leopards, tigers, jaguars, and cheetahs, typically having a round head and retractile claws.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 猫科
Translation: 捕食性哺乳动物，包括猫，狮，豹，老虎，美洲豹和猎豹，通常有圆头和伸缩的爪子。

Code: 3154
English Term: fen
Definition: Waterlogged, spongy ground containing alkaline decaying vegetation, characterized by reeds, that may develop into peat. It sometimes occurs in the sinkholes of karst region.  &#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沼泽
Translation: 水泽，海绵状地面，包含碱化腐败植被，如芦苇，可能会发展成泥炭。在喀斯特地区的灰岩坑时有发生。

Code: 3159
English Term: fermentation
Definition: Any enzymatic transformation of organic substrates, especially carbohydrates, generally accompanied by the evolution of gas; a physiological counterpart of oxidation, permitting certain organisms to live and grow in the absence of air; used in various industrial processes for the manufacture of products, such as alcohols, acids, and cheese by the action of yeasts, molds, and bacteria; alcoholic fermentation is the best-known example. Also known as zymosis.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 发酵
Translation: 任何有机基质酶转化，特别是碳水化合物，一般伴有气体产生；氧化反应的生理体现，允许一些生物在无痒环境下存货和生长；在在各种工业过程中被用来制造产品，例如借助酵母菌，霉菌和细菌制造酒精，酸和奶酪；酒精发酵是最有名的例子。

Code: 3162
English Term: fern
Definition: Any of a large number of vascular plants composing the division Polypodiophyta, without flowers and fruits.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蕨类植物
Translation: 大量的维管束植物，组成了水龙骨门，没有花和果。

Code: 3169
English Term: fertiliser
Definition: Substance added to soil for the purpose of promoting plant life, usually containing nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus, e.g. manure, guano, rock phosphates.  &#10;(Source: BENNET)
Chinese Term: 化肥
Translation: 加入土壤中的物质，目的是促进植物生长。通常包含氮，钾，磷，例如粪肥，鸟粪，岩石磷酸盐。

Code: 3171
English Term: fertiliser law
Definition:
Chinese Term: 肥料法
Translation:


Code: 3174
English Term: fibre
Definition: An extremely long, pliable, cohesive natural or manufactured threadlike object from which yarns are spun to be woven into textiles.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 纤维
Translation: 一种极长，柔韧，结实的线状物，用它可以纺织出纺织品。

Code: 3175
English Term: fibreglass
Definition: A material made from small fibres of glass twisted together, which is used for keeping buildings warm, or a plastic strengthened by these fibres and used for making structures such as the outsides of cars and boats.  &#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 玻璃纤维
Translation: 由细小玻璃纤维缠绕在一起作成的物质，可以为建筑物保暖，或由其加固的塑料，用作车或船的结构。

Code: 3176
English Term: field
Definition: A limited area of land with grass or crops growing on it, which is usually surrounded by fences or closely planted bushes when it is part of a farm.  &#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 田
Translation: 有限面积内种植草或作物。作为农场一部分时通常由护栏围起或在周围密密种植灌木。

Code: 3177
English Term: field damage
Definition: A decline in the productivity of an area of land or in its ability to support natural ecosystems or types of agriculture. Degradation may be caused by a variety of factors, including inappropriate land management techniques, soil erosion, salinity, flooding, clearing, pests, pollution, climatic factors, or progressive urbanization.  &#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 田地受损
Translation: 一定面积生产率下降或者支撑农业或自然生态系统的能力的下降。下降可能是由多种因素引起，包括不适当的土地管理技术，土壤侵蚀，盐碱化，洪水，空置，害虫，污染，气候因素，或逐渐的城市化。

Code: 3178
English Term: field experiment
Definition: Experiment carried out on a substance or on an organism in the open air as opposed to in a laboratory.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 实地实验
Translation: 在现实中而非实验室对某一物质或有机体进行的实验。

Code: 3179
English Term: field study
Definition: Scientific study made in the open air to collect information that can not be obtained in a laboratory.  &#10;(Source: PHCa /  DUNSTEa)
Chinese Term: 实地考察
Translation: 在实地进行考察，搜集一些在实验室搜集不到的信息。

Code: 3181
English Term: filling material
Definition: Any substance used to fill the holes and irregularities in planed or sanded surfaces so as to decrease the porosity of the surface for finish coatings.  &#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:填充材料
Translation: 用来填补平面或沙质表面的漏洞和不规则形态，以降低涂层表面的空隙。

Code: 3182
English Term: filling station
Definition: A place where petrol and other supplies for motorists are sold.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 加油站
Translation: 卖车用汽油或其他补给的地方。

Code: 3183
English Term: film
Definition: A motion picture; a thin flexible strip of cellulose coated with a photographic emission, used to make negatives and transparencies.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 胶片
Translation: 移动影象；一个涂有照片曝光物质的的纤维薄片，用于制作底片及幻灯片。

Code: 3184
English Term: filter
Definition: A porous material for separating suspended particulate matter from liquids by passing the liquid through the pores in the filter and sieving out the solids.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 过滤器
Translation: 一种通过让液体穿过过滤孔，留下固体物质，以分离液体中的物质的多孔材料。

Code: 3186
English Term: filter cake
Definition: Accumulated solids, wet or dry, generated by any filtration process, including accumulation on fabric filters in air filtering processes, or accumulation of wet solids in liquid filtering processes.  &#10;(Source: EED /  ISEP)
Chinese Term: 滤渣
Translation: 累积的固体，干的或者湿的，由过滤过程产生，包括在空气过滤过程中累积的纤维物质或者在液体过滤过程中累积的湿固体物质。

Code: 3190
English Term: filtration
Definition: Separation of suspended particles from a liquid, gas, etc., by the action of a filter.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 滤除
Translation: 通过过滤把液体、气体等中悬浮的颗粒分离。

Code: 3192
English Term: final storage
Definition: A system where inert materials, which are not to be mobilized by natural processes even for long time periods, are confined by three barriers: the natural impermeable surroundings, an artificial barrier (such as liner) which can be controlled and, most important, the inert material itself. The concept of final storage includes the possibility to mine the materials in the future if such materials are sufficiently "clean" (mono-landfills) and if it becomes economic to mine such ores.
Chinese Term: 最终存储
Translation: 一种系统，其中有惰性物质，即便在自然进程中很长时间也不变化，其被三种界限限制：天然不透水的环境，可以控制的人工屏障如内衬，以及最重要的即惰性物质本身。最终存储的概念包括在未来“干净”的、经济的存储这些矿物质的可能性。

Code: 3194
English Term: finances
Definition: The monetary resources or revenue of a government, company, organization or individual.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 资金
Translation: 政府、公司、组织或个人的货币资源或收入。

Code: 11030
English Term: financial aid
Definition: The transfer of funds from developed to underdeveloped countries.  &#10;(Source: GOODa)
Chinese Term: 经济资助
Translation: 将资金从发达国家转移到不发达国家。

Code: 3195
English Term: financial assistance
Definition: Help and support provided on matters concerning money.  &#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 财政援助
Translation: 和资金有关的帮助和支持。

Code: 3196
English Term: financial compensation
Definition: The financial reparations that a claimant seeks or a court awards for injuries sustained or property harmed by another.  &#10;(Source: IVW)
Chinese Term: 经济补偿
Translation: 财务赔偿，由于另一方造成的伤害或财产损失，由原告要求或由法院给予。

Code: 3197
English Term: financial contribution
Definition: Something given, including any form of income or price support; individual investor's monetary offering or contribution to common fund or stock; government agency's or lending aid agency's subsidy, grant, or other contribution to help bolster an economy.  &#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 财政捐助
Translation: 给予的物品包括任何形式的收益或补贴；个人投资者的金融帮助或者对基金或股票的捐助；政府机构的援助或贷款机构的补贴、津贴或其他贡献，用以帮助改善经济。

Code: 11044
English Term: financial fund
Definition: Monetary resources set aside for some purpose.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 财政资金
Translation: 储备用作某些目的的资金资源。

Code: 3199
English Term: financial instrument
Definition: A generic term that refers to the many different forms of financing a business may use. For example - loans, shares, and bonds are all considered financing instruments.  &#10;(Source: PGE)
Chinese Term: 金融工具
Translation: 通用术语，指代许多不同形式的融资方式。例如-贷款，股票，债券，都被认为是金融工具。

Code: 3200
English Term: financial law
Definition:
Chinese Term: 金融法
Translation:


Code: 13260
English Term: financial management
Definition: The management of acquisitions and the use of long- and short-term capital by a business.
Chinese Term: 财务管理
Translation: 对商业短期和长期资金的获取和使用的管理。

Code: 3201
English Term: financial market
Definition: A place or institution in which buyers and sellers meet and trade monetary assets, including stocks, bonds, securities and money.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 金融市场
Translation: 买卖者会面并交易货币资产，例如股票，债券，证券和资金的地点或机构。

Code: 3205
English Term: financing
Definition: Procurement of monetary resources or credit to operate a business or acquire assets.  &#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 融资
Translation: 采购货币资源或贷款来开办商业或购置资产。

Code: 3207
English Term: fine
Definition: A pecuniary punishment or penalty imposed by lawful tribunal upon person convicted of crime or misdemeanor.  &#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 罚款
Translation: 由法律判决强制于犯罪或违法的个人的金钱方面的处罚。

Code: 3209
English Term: fine dust
Definition: Air-borne solid particles, originating from human activity and natural sources, such as wind-blown soil and fires, that eventually settle through the force of gravity, and can cause injury to human and other animal respiratory systems through excessive inhalation.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 细尘
Translation: 气态固体颗粒，由人类活动和自然源例如风化土壤、火产生。最终会由于地球重力而落地。如果过量吸入，会引起人或其他动物的呼吸系统损坏。

Code: 3212
English Term: fire
Definition: The state of combustion in which inflammable material burns, producing heat, flames and often smoke.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 火
Translation: 可燃物质燃烧的状态，产生热量、火焰，通常有烟。

Code: 3218
English Term: fire precaution
Definition: Measure, action or installation implemented in advance to avert the possibility of any unexpected and potentially harmful combustion of materials.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 防火措施
Translation: 措施、行动或提前实施安装，以避免任何意外的和潜在有害的材料燃烧的可能性。

Code: 3220
English Term: fire protection
Definition: All necessary precautions to see that fire is not initiated, by ensuring that all necessary fire fighting apparatus is in good order and available for use if fire should break out, and by ensuring that personnel are properly trained and drilled in fighting fire.  &#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 消防
Translation: 使火灾不会发生的预防措施。保证所有的必要消防仪器都有序和在必要时可用，保证人员都经过良好训练，可以抗击火灾。

Code: 3225
English Term: fire safety requirement
Definition: Rules to be followed and safety systems to be adopted for preventing or fighting fire.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 消防安全规定
Translation: 需要遵守的规则，需要采用的安全系统以预防和抵御火灾。

Code: 3226
English Term: fire service
Definition: Technical organisation with trained personnel for dealing with fires and other incidents and for co-operating in their prevention.  &#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 消防队
Translation: 技术组织，有受训过的人员能处理火灾及其他突发事件，以及能预防这些事件。

Code: 3219
English Term: fireproofing agent
Definition: A chemical used as a coating for or a component of a combustible material to reduce or eliminate a tendency to burn; used with textiles, plastics, rubbers, paints, and other materials.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 耐火粉饰
Translation: 一种用作涂料或可燃物中成分的化学物质，可以减少或消除燃烧的趋势；与纺织品，塑料，橡胶，涂料，和其他材料一起使用。

Code: 3229
English Term: firing
Definition: The process of applying fire or heat, as in the hardening or glazing of ceramics.  &#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 烧制
Translation: 如在硬化或陶瓷玻璃中的使用的取火或热的过程。

Code: 3232
English Term: firm
Definition: A commercial partnership of two or more persons, especially when incorporated.  &#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 商行
Translation: 两个或更多人的商业关系，特别是他们合作时。

Code: 3252
English Term: fish
Definition: Cold-blooded aquatic vertebrates.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鱼
Translation: 冷血水生脊椎动物。

Code: 3236
English Term: fish disease
Definition:
Chinese Term: 鱼病
Translation:


Code: 3254
English Term: fish farming
Definition: Raising of fish in inland waters, estuaries or coastal waters.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 养鱼业
Translation: 在内陆水域，河口或沿海水域养殖鱼类。

Code: 3269
English Term: fish kill
Definition: Fish diseases observed in the past three decades and which have been attributed to pollution include: haemorrhages; tumours; fin rot; deformed fins; and missing scales and tails. In industrialized countries, increasing numbers of fish are deemed inedible. Many small kills are not noticed or are not reported, and large kills are often not included because of insufficient information to determine whether the kills were caused by pollution or by natural factors. Low dissolved oxygen levels resulting from excessive sewage is one of the leading causes. The second most common cause is pesticides.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 鱼类死亡
Translation: 在过去三十年观察到的鱼类疾病，其中被归于污染引起的：出血;肿瘤;鳍腐烂，变形的鳍，鳞片和尾巴和消失。在工业化国家，越来越多的鱼被认为是不宜食用的。许多小规模鱼类死亡没有被发现或不报导，大规模的鱼类死亡通常没有包含在内，因为缺乏足够的信息判断到底鱼类死亡是由于污染还是由于自然因素。由过度排污造成的溶氧水平低是首要原因。第二大主要原因是农药。

Code: 3273
English Term: fish stock
Definition: Quantity of fish held for future use.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 鱼藏量
Translation: 供未来之用的鱼的数量。

Code: 3274
English Term: fish toxicity
Definition:
Chinese Term: 鱼类毒性
Translation:


Code: 3238
English Term: fisheries management
Definition: The administration and handling of aspects of the fishing industry, including the catching, processing and selling of fish.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 渔业管理
Translation: 管理和处理渔业各方面，包括捕捞，加工和销售鱼。

Code: 13210
English Term: fisheries structure
Definition: Refers to all the structures (fishing vessels, trawling nets, factory ships, catcher boats, etc.) used in fishing industry.  &#10;(Source: PARCORa)
Chinese Term: 渔业结构
Translation: 渔业中的使用的所有结构（渔船，拖网网，加工船，船捕等）。

Code: 3237
English Term: fishery
Definition: The industry of catching, processing and selling fish.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 渔业
Translation: 捕捞、处理、贩卖鱼的产业。

Code: 3243
English Term: fishery economics
Definition: The production, distribution, and consumption of fish and seafood and all financial aspects of the fishing and seafood industry.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 渔业经济
Translation: 生产、分配以及消费鱼、海产品以及渔业和海产品业的所有财务方面资源。

Code: 3246
English Term: fishery policy
Definition: Common Fisheries Policy which covers all fishing activities, the farming of living aquatic resources, and their processing and marketing, on the legal basis of Article 39 of the Treaty of Rome. It was agreed between members of the European Community in 1983. It lays down annual catch limits for major species of fish, a 12-mile exclusive fishing zone for each state, and an equal-access zone of 200 nautical miles from its coast within which any member state is allowed to fish.  &#10;(Source: ECSA /  SOCIOL)
Chinese Term: 渔业政策
Translation: 通常渔业政策涵盖了所有的鱼类活动，对水生生物资源的捕捞，处理和销售。欧洲共同体成员于1983年达成协议。限制每年主要品种鱼类捕捞的上限，每个国家有一个12英里长的独立捕鱼区，一个从海岸开始200海里的所有国家都可进入的捕鱼区。

Code: 3241
English Term: fishery resource
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 渔业资源。
Translation: 无须定义。

Code: 3256
English Term: fishing
Definition: The attempt to catch fish or other aquatic animal with a hook or with nets, traps, etc.  &#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 捕鱼
Translation: 试图用钩、网、陷阱等捕鱼或其他水生动物。

Code: 13211
English Term: fishing ground
Definition: Area of sea or freshwater where fish are caught.  &#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 渔场
Translation: 捕鱼的海洋或淡水区域。

Code: 3260
English Term: fishing industry
Definition: Industry for the handling, processing, and packing of fish or shellfish for market or shipment.  &#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 渔业
Translation: 为市场或装运而处理，加工，包装鱼类或贝类的工业。

Code: 3261
English Term: fishing law
Definition: Rules concerning fishing activities; in international law the matter is ruled by the 1958 Geneva Convention.  &#10;(Source: DEFRA)
Chinese Term: 渔业法
Translation: 和捕鱼活动有关的规则；在国际法中规定此问题的是1958年的日内瓦公约。

Code: 11506
English Term: fishing licence
Definition: Official permission granted to individuals or commercial enterprises allowing and regulating by time, location, species, size or amount the fish that can be caught from rivers, lakes or ocean waters within a particular jurisdiction.  &#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 捕捞许可证
Translation: 官方授权允许个人或商业企业在规定的时间、地点、种类、大小或数量捕鱼，捕鱼地点可以是湖泊，河流，海洋等管辖区域。

Code: 3263
English Term: fishing preserve
Definition: Limited portion of a water body where angling is allowed.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 渔业保护
Translation: 允许在有限部分水体钓鱼。

Code: 3266
English Term: fishing vessel
Definition:
Chinese Term: 渔船
Translation:


Code: 3277
English Term: fitting (plumbing)
Definition: Plumbing equipment in a building.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 设备（管道系统）
Translation: 建筑物中的管道系统。

Code: 3278
English Term: fixed schedule of charges
Definition:
Chinese Term: 固定的收费时间表
Translation:


Code: 3281
English Term: flag of convenience
Definition: Practice of registering a merchant vessel with a country that has favourable (i.e. less restrictive ) safety requirements, registration fees, etc.
Chinese Term: 方便旗
Translation: 通过注册商船使得国家拥有最少限制条件，如安全要求，注册费等的做法。

Code: 11814
English Term: flammable product
Definition: Material having the ability to generate a sufficient concentration of combustible vapors to produce a flame, if ignited.  &#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 易燃产品
Translation: 如果点燃，能产生足够浓度的可燃气体的物质。

Code: 3282
English Term: flaring
Definition: 1) Flares use open flames during normal and/or emergency operations to combust hazardous gaseous. The system has no special features to control temperature or time of combustion; however, supplemental fuel may be required to sustain the combustion. Historically, flares have been used to dispose of waste gases in the oil and gas industry and at wastewater treatment plants having anaerobic digestors. Regulation for thermal destruction of hazardous wastes limit the practical use of flaring to combustion of relatively simple hydrocarbons, such as methane from digesters or landfill gas collection systems. &#10;2) A control device that burns hazardous materials to prevent their release into the environment; may operate continuously or intermittently, usually on top a stack. &#10;(Source: CORBIT /  EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 燃尽
Translation: 1）使用开放环境下的火焰来正常或紧急处理有害气体的燃烧。系统没有特殊功能来供职温度或燃烧时间。然而，可能需要补充燃料，以维持燃烧。历史上，燃尽已被用来处理石油和天然气行业中的废气，或用于污水处理厂的厌氧沼气池。对危险废物的热破坏规定限制燃尽相对简单的碳氢化合物，如沼气池或填埋气体收集系统中的沼气。&#10;2）一种控制装置，点燃有害物质以防止其排放入环境。可以连续或简短工作，通常在堆栈顶部。

Code: 3287
English Term: flavouring
Definition: A substance, such as an extract or a spice, that imparts flavor. &#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 调味品
Translation: 如提取物或香料等物质，能带来味道。

Code: 3288
English Term: flea
Definition: Any of the wingless insects composing the order Siphonaptera; most are ectoparasites of mammals and birds.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蚤
Translation: 无翅昆虫组成的蚤，大部分是哺乳动物和鸟类的体外寄生虫。

Code: 3291
English Term: flexible approach to environmental protection
Definition: Plans, referred to in various rules as emissions averaging, or flexible compliance plans, allow facilities to undercontrol some emission points that are too costly to control to mandated levels as long as these units are balanced by overcontrolling other emission units that are more cost-effective to control. &#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term: 灵活的环境保护方法
Translation: 指代约束平均排放量，或弹性兼容规则，允许设施控制在排放临界点之内，这些临界点花费太大而无法回到可控水平，只要这些单元能够平衡控制其他更高效的排放单元。

Code: 3294
English Term: flocculant
Definition: A reagent added to a dispersion of solids in a liquid to bring together the fine particles to form flocs.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 凝聚剂
Translation: 一种试剂加入固体分散存在的液体中，使固体聚形成絮体。

Code: 3295
English Term: flocculation
Definition: A process of contact and adhesion whereby the particles of a dispersed substance form large clusters or the aggregation of particles in a colloid to form small lumps, which then settle out. &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 絮凝
Translation: 一个联系和粘接工艺，使分散的颗粒物质形成的大型集群或者胶体粒子聚集，形成小块状，然后沉淀。

Code: 3298
English Term: flood
Definition: An unusual accumulation of water above the ground caused by high tide, heavy rain, melting snow or rapid runoff from paved areas.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 洪水
Translation: 不寻常的水积聚，高于地面，由高潮，暴雨，冰雪融化或泥石流形成。

Code: 3300
English Term: flood control
Definition: Measures taken to prevent or reduce harm caused by an unusual accumulation of water above the ground, often involving the construction of reservoirs and channeling structures. &#10;(Source: ALL /  WWC)
Chinese Term: 洪水控制
Translation: 为防止和减少不寻常的高于地面的水积聚而带来的损害而采取的措施。通常需要建设水库和沟渠结构。

Code: 12131
English Term: flood forecast
Definition: The hydrological processes generating river floods have been studied extensively and several modelling concepts have been proposed. The standard procedure for flood forecasting consists of calibrating the parameters of the model of a particular river basin on a representative set of historical hydrometric data and subsequently applying this calibrated model in a real-time environment.  &#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 洪水预报
Translation: 洪水发生的水文过程已被广泛研究，许多建模理论被提出。对洪水预报的标准程序包括基于历史水文数据，校准有代表性的某一流域模型的参数，以及随后在实时环境中使用此校正模型。

Code: 12687
English Term: flood protection
Definition: Precautionary measures, equipment or structures implemented to guard or defend people, property and lands from an unusual accumulation of water above the ground.  &#10;(Source: ALL / WWC)
Chinese Term: 防洪
Translation: 预防措施，设备，或结构，建造用来保护，财产和土地不被不寻常累积的高于地表的大水损害。

Code: 12122
English Term: flood runoff
Definition: The total quantity of water flowing from the catchment during the period of the flood.  &#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 洪水流量
Translation: 洪水时从积水区流出的水的总量。

Code: 3301
English Term: flooding
Definition: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland and/or tidal waters, and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source. A great flow along a watercourse or a flow causing inundation of lands not normally covered by water.  &#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 洪涝
Translation: 正常情况下干燥的区域被淡水或潮水以不寻常的快速累积冲刷而完全或部分淹没。沿着水道的大流量或引起淹没的流量通常并没有很多水。

Code: 3305
English Term: flora (biology)
Definition: The plant life characterizing a specific geographic region or environment.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 植物（生物学）
Translation: 一个特定的地理区域或环境的植物生命特征。

Code: 13002
English Term: flora (document)
Definition: A work systematically describing the flora of a particular region, listed by species and considered as a whole.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 植物（文档）
Translation: 描述特定地区植物的系统工作，列出物种，全局考虑。

Code: 3307
English Term: flora restoration
Definition: The process of returning plant ecosystems and habitats to their original conditions.  &#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 植物相重建
Translation: 恢复植物生态系统和原生境条件的过程。

Code: 3308
English Term: flotation
Definition: A process used to separate particulate solids by causing one group of particles to float; utilizes differences in surface chemical properties of the particles, some of which are entirely wetted by water, others are not.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 浮选
Translation: 分离特定固体物质的过程，原理是使一组颗粒浮起；利用粒子的表面化学性质的差异，其中有些是完全被水浸湿，其他则没有。

Code: 3311
English Term: flow
Definition: The forward continuous movement of a fluid through closed or open channels or conduits.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 流动
Translation: 液体流经密闭或开放的通道或导管，向前的连续运动。

Code: 3315
English Term: flow field
Definition: The velocity and the density of a fluid as functions of position and time.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 流场
Translation: 流体的速度和密度，表达为位置和时间的函数。

Code: 3312
English Term: flower
Definition: The reproductive structure of angiosperm plants, consisting of stamens and carpels surrounded by petals and sepals all borne on the receptacle.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 花
Translation: 被子植物生殖结构，雄蕊和心皮由花托上的花瓣和萼片包裹。

Code: 3313
English Term: flowering plant
Definition: Plants capable of producing conspicuous flowers.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 开花植物
Translation: 能产生明显花朵的植物。

Code: 3316
English Term: flowing water
Definition: Moving waters like rivers and streams.  &#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 活水
Translation: 流动的水流，如河流和溪流。

Code: 3319
English Term: flue gas
Definition: The gaseous combustion product generated by a furnace and often exhausted through a chimney (flue).  &#10;(Source: APD / Landy)
Chinese Term: 烟气
Translation: 气体燃烧炉产生物质，通常由烟囱排出。

Code: 3322
English Term: fluidics
Definition: A control technology that employs fluid dynamic phenomena to perform sensing, control, information, processing, and actuation functions without the use of moving mechanical parts.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 射流技术
Translation: 控制技术，使用流体动力学现象来实现传感，控制，信息，处理和驱动功能，而不需要使用移动机械部分。

Code: 3324
English Term: fluidisation
Definition: A roasting process in which finely divided solids are suspended in a rising current of air (or other fluid), producing a fluidized bed; used in the calcination of various materials, in the coal industry, etc.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 流态化
Translation: 一种焙烧过程，已经散开的谷底物质在快速上升的气流（或其他流体）中悬浮，产生流化床；用于各种材料焙烧，煤炭工业等。

Code: 3325
English Term: fluidised bed
Definition: 1) A system for burning solid carbonaceous fuel efficiently and at a relatively low temperature, thus minimizing the emission of pollutants. The fuel is crushed to very small particles or a powder and mixed with particles of an inert material. The mixture is fed into a bed through which air is pumped vertically upwards, agitating the particles so they behave like a fluid. The forced circulation of air and the small size and separation of fuel particles ensures efficient burning.&#10; 2) A bed of finely divided solid through which air or a gas is blown in a controlled manner so that it behaves as a liquid. &#10;(Source: ALL /  BRACK)
Chinese Term: 流化床
Translation: 1）一种以高效和较低温度燃烧固体碳燃料从而最大限度地减少污染物的排放的系统。这种燃料被压成非常小的颗粒粉末，与惰性物质粒子混合。混合物被加入床中，床中的空气被垂直向上压入，搅动微粒是他们就像液体一样。空气回旋力和小体积以及颗粒分散保证了燃烧效率。&#10;2）由打散的固体填充的床，空气或气体以被控制好的方式吹入，让这些固体像液体一样。

Code: 3328
English Term: fluoridation
Definition: The addition of the fluorine ion to municipal water supplies in a final concentration of 0.8-1.6 ppm (parts per million) to help prevent dental caries in children.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 加氟
Translation: 在市政供水中添加负离子的过程，最终浓度为0.8-1.6 ppm，以预防儿童龋齿。

Code: 3334
English Term: fluorine
Definition: A gaseous or liquid chemical element; a member of the halide family, it is the most electronegative element and the most chemically energetic of the nonmetallic elements; highly toxic, corrosive, and flammable; used in rocket fuels and as a chemical intermediate.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 氟
Translation: 气态或液态化学物质；卤族成员，它是阴性最强的元素以及是化学性质最活泼的非金属元素；有很高的毒性，腐蚀性，和易燃性;用于火箭燃料，用作化学中间体。

Code: 12198
English Term: flushing
Definition: Removing lodged deposits of rock fragments and other debris by water flow at high velocity; used to clean water conduits and drilled boreholes. &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 冲刷
Translation: 用高速流水除去附着的固体碎片以及其他残渣。用来清洗导管或钻孔。

Code: 3340
English Term: fluvial resource
Definition: Any source of supply derived from a river, particularly its water, which is collected, stored and treated, then distributed for domestic, industrial, farm and other uses.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 河产资源
Translation: 所有从河流来的资源，特别是水源，被搜集，储存，处理，然后发放用于家庭，工业，农业及其他用途使用。

Code: 3342
English Term: fly ash
Definition: Finely divided particles of ash that are entrained in flue gases resulting from the combustion of fuel or other material. The particles of ash may contain incompletely burned fuel and other pollutants.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 飞灰
Translation: 分散的细固体颗粒，夹带在烟气中，由燃料或其他物质的燃烧产生。这些灰尘颗粒可能包括有未燃烧完全的燃料和其他污染物质。

Code: 3343
English Term: foaming agent
Definition: Substances which make it possible to form a homogenous dispersion of a gaseous phase in a liquid or solid medium.  &#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 发泡剂
Translation: 一种物质，可以在液体或固体媒介中形成连续分散气相。

Code: 3345
English Term: fodder
Definition: Bulk feed for livestock, especially hay, straw, etc.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 饲料
Translation: 大量喂养牲口的饲料，特别是干草，稻草等。

Code: 13188
English Term: fodder plant
Definition: Plants used to feed livestock.  &#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:
Translation: 用作饲料的植物。

Code: 3347
English Term: fog
Definition: Water droplets or, rarely, ice crystals suspended in the air in sufficient concentration to reduce visibility appreciably.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 雾
Translation: 水滴或极少数情况，冰晶悬浮于空气中，有相当浓度以至于降低能见度。

Code: 3350
English Term: foliage
Definition: The green leaves of a plant.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 叶
Translation: 植物的绿叶。

Code: 10078
English Term: folk tradition
Definition: The common beliefs, practices, customs and other cultural elements of an ethnic or social group that are rooted in the past, but are persisting into the present due to means such as arts and crafts, songs and music, dance, foods, drama, storytelling and certain forms of oral communication.  &#10;(Source: VFP)
Chinese Term: 民间传统
Translation: 一个民族或社会团体共同的信念，行为，习惯和其他文化元素，通常植根于过去，但以艺术和手工艺，歌曲和音乐，舞蹈，饮食，戏剧，讲故事和口头传播的形式保持到现在。

Code: 10891
English Term: folklore
Definition: The traditional and common beliefs, practices and customs of a people, which are passed on as a shared way of life, often through oral traditions such as folktales, legends, anecdotes, proverbs, jokes and other forms of communication.  &#10;(Source: VFP)
Chinese Term: 民间故事
Translation: 一群人传统的和共同的信仰，实践和习俗，通过共享的方式生活传承，通常通过口头传统，例如民间故事，传说，故事，谚语，笑话及其他沟通形式。

Code: 3354
English Term: food
Definition: A material that can be ingested and utilized by the organism as a source of nutrition and energy.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 食物
Translation: 一种可以被有机体消化和吸收的物质，作为能量和营养的来源。

Code: 3356
English Term: food additive
Definition: Substances that have no nutritive value in themselves (or are not being used as nutrients) which are added to food during processing to improve colour, texture, flavour, or keeping qualities.  &#10;(Source: ALL /  MGH)
Chinese Term: 食品添加剂
Translation: 本身没有营养价值的物质（或者不被用作营养物），在加工过程中被加入食物，以提高颜色，质地，风味，或保质期等品质。

Code: 3358
English Term: food chain
Definition: A sequence of organisms on successive trophic levels within a community, through which energy is transferred by feeding; energy enters the food chain during fixation by primary producers (mainly green plants) and passes to the herbivores (primary consumers) and then to the carnivores (secondary and tertiary consumers).  &#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 食物链
Translation: 生物社区内同一营养级别上的一系列有机体，能量通过捕食的形式传递：能量通过主要生产者(主要是绿色植物)的固定进入食物链，然后传递到草食动物（主要消费者），然后传递到肉食动物（二级和三级消费者）。

Code: 3360
English Term: food colourant
Definition: Any digestible substance, usually a synthetic dye, which manufacturers add to food to give it color and enhance its appearance.  &#10;(Source: INP)
Chinese Term: 食品着色剂
Translation: 可消化物质，通常是合成染料，制造商加入食物使其着色，使增强食物外观。

Code: 3362
English Term: food commerce
Definition: An interchange of any food commodity or related food products, usually on a large scale.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 食品贸易
Translation: 任何食品或食物相关产品的交易，通常是大宗的。

Code: 3365
English Term: food contamination
Definition:
Chinese Term: 食品污染
Translation:


Code: 3367
English Term: food hygiene
Definition: That part of the science of hygiene that deals with the principles and methods of sanitation applied to the quality of foodstuffs, to their processing, preparation, conservation and consumption by man.  &#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term: 食品卫生
Translation: 处理用于食物质量的卫生设备，人工处理，制备，保存和食用的原则方法的卫生科学。

Code: 3368
English Term: food industry
Definition: The commercial production and packaging of foods that are fabricated by processing, by combining various ingredients, or both.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 食品工业
Translation: 工业加工和包装食物，通过把多种原料组合处理，组装成品。

Code: 3370
English Term: food irradiation
Definition: The most recent addition to food preservation technologies is the use of ionizing radiation, which has some distinct advantages over conventional methods. With irradiation, foods can be treated after packaging, thus eliminating post-processing contamination. In addition, foods are preserved in a fresh state and can be kept longer without noticeable loss of quality. Food irradiation leaves no residues, and changes in nutritional value due to irradiation are comparable with those produced by other processes. Irradiation is the process of applying high energy to a material, such as food, to sterilize or extend its shelf-life by killing microorganisms, insects and other pests residing on it. Sources of ionizing radiation that have been used include gamma rays, electron beams and X-rays. Gamma rays are produced by radioactive isotopes such as Cobalt-60. Electron beams are produced by linear accelerators, which themselves are powered by electricity. The dose applied to a product is the most important factor of the process. At high doses, food is essentially sterilized, just as occurs in canning. Products so treated can be stored at room temperature almost indefinitely. Controversial and banned in some countries.  &#10;(Source: IFSE /  VCN)
Chinese Term: 食品辐射
Translation: 利用电离辐射是一种最近新出现的食品保鲜技术，它比起传统方法有一些独特的优势。食品可以在包装后进行辐射处理，从而消除后处理带来的污染。此外，食品以新鲜的状态保存，可以保存很长时间而没有明显的质量损失。由于辐射与其他生产工艺类似，食品辐射也没有残留，造成的营养价值也会有所变化。辐照是在材料例如食物的处理中采用高能量，通过杀灭微生物、昆虫和其他寄居于其中的害虫来消毒和延长保质期。电离辐射的来源包括伽玛射线，电子束和X射线。伽玛射线是由如钴-60放射性的同位素的物质产生。电子束是由直线加速器产生，它本身是由电力驱动的。应用到产品的放射物质的剂量是这一过程中的最重要因素。大剂量情况下，和罐头一样，食物可以被完全消毒。这样处理的食物可以在室温下几乎无限期储存。有些国家对这种方式存在争议或禁止这种做法。

Code: 3372
English Term: food pollutant
Definition: Potentially harmful substances in any food consumed by humans, or other animals, including inorganic and organic chemicals, viruses and bacteria.  &#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 食品污染物
Translation: 食物中的潜在有害物质，被人类或其他动物使用，包括无机和有机化学物质，病毒和细菌。

Code: 3375
English Term: food preservation
Definition: Processing designed to protect food from spoilage caused by microbes, enzymes, and autooxidation.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 食品保鲜
Translation: 保护食物，使其不会产生由微生物、酶和自身氧化造成的腐败的过程。

Code: 3376
English Term: food processing industry
Definition: A commercial establishment in which food is manufactured or packaged for human consumption.  &#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 食品加工业
Translation: 一种商业，其建立是为了生产或包装供人类消费的食物。

Code: 3378
English Term: food production (agriculture)
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 粮食生产（农业）
Translation:


Code: 3380
English Term: food quality
Definition:
Chinese Term: 食品质量
Translation:


Code: 3381
English Term: food requirement
Definition: The minimum food ration required for satisfying the essential needs of an organism.  &#10;(Source: DELFIN)
Chinese Term: 粮食需求
Translation: 满足生物体基本需求的最低限度的粮食配发。

Code: 3384
English Term: food science
Definition: The applied science which deals with the chemical, biochemical, physical, physiochemical, and biological properties of foods.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 食品科学
Translation: 关注食物的化学，生物化学，物理，理化和生物性质的应用科学。

Code: 3387
English Term: food storage
Definition: Stock of food kept in storage as a national measure to provide security against fluctuations in food supply.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 食品储藏
Translation: 粮食存储作为一种国家措施，以提供食物补给波动时的安全。

Code: 3391
English Term: food technology
Definition: The application of science and engineering to the refining, manufacturing, and handling of foods; many food technologists are food scientists rather than engineers.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 食品技术
Translation: 精炼，制造和食品处理的应用科学与技术；许多食品技术人员是食品科学家而不是工程师。

Code: 3392
English Term: food transport
Definition:
Chinese Term: 食品运输
Translation:


Code: 3388
English Term: foodstuff
Definition: A substance that can be used or prepared for use as food.  &#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 粮食
Translation: 可以用做或准备用做食物的物质。

Code: 3395
English Term: footpath
Definition: A narrow path for walkers only.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 径
Translation: 供人行走的小道。

Code: 3396
English Term: forage contamination
Definition: Introduction of hazardous or poisonous substances such as arsenic or lead into, or onto, fodder for animals. The animals consume the contaminated feed and can become sick and may die.  &#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 饲料污染
Translation: 将有毒或有害物质例如砷或铅带入或加入动物饲料。食用这些受污染的动物会生病或死亡。

Code: 11177
English Term: forage crop
Definition: Cultivation of crops for consumption by livestock.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 饲料作物
Translation: 供牲畜消费而栽培的农作物。

Code: 3397
English Term: forage law
Definition:
Chinese Term: 牧草法
Translation:


Code: 3400
English Term: forecast
Definition: An estimate or prediction of a future condition.  &#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 预报
Translation: 对未来情况的估计或预测。

Code: 3401
English Term: foreclosure
Definition: To shut out, to bar, to destroy an equity of redemption. A termination of all rights of the mortgagor or his grantee in the property covered by the mortgage. The process by which a mortgagor of real or personal property, or other owner of property subject to a lien, is deprived of his interest therein. Procedure by which mortgaged property is sold on default of mortgagor in satisfaction of mortgage debt. In common usage, refers to enforcement of lien, trust deed, or mortgage in any method provided by law.  &#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 止赎
Translation: 拒绝禁止，销毁赎回股票。终止抵押人的的全部权利或他在按揭中的涉及的财产。抵押人或其他业主的留置权的利益被剥夺。抵押人对抵押债务的违约满意，按揭财产被出售。常见的用法，是指留置权的执行，信托契约，或在法律规定的任何方式的抵押贷款。

Code: 3402
English Term: foreign economic relations
Definition: Dealing in economic or monetary matters with foreign countries.  &#10;(Source: OEDa)
Chinese Term: 对外经济关系
Translation: 处理与外国的经济或金融问题。

Code: 3404
English Term: foreign policy
Definition: The diplomatic policy of a nation in its interactions with other nations.  &#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 对外政策
Translation: 在和其他国家交往中的外交政策。

Code: 3405
English Term: foreign trade
Definition: Trade between countries and firms belonging to different countries.
Chinese Term: 外贸
Translation: 不同国家之间或不同国家公司之间的贸易。

Code: 3406
English Term: forest
Definition: A vegetation community dominated by trees and other woody shrubs, growing close enough together that the tree tops touch or overlap, creating various degrees of shade on the forest floor. It may produce benefits such as timber, recreation, wildlife habitat, etc.  &#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 森林
Translation: 由树木和其他木本灌木为主的植被群落，生长得足够靠近，树顶接触或重叠，造成了一定森林地面程度的阴影。这可能会产生诸如木材，休闲，野生动物栖息地等益处。

Code: 10203
English Term: forest biological reserve
Definition: Forest areas which are protected and guarded from deforestation because of the fragility of its ecosystems, and because they provide habitats for hundreds of species of plants and animals.  &#10;(Source: TOURISa)
Chinese Term: 森林生物储备
Translation: 保护和守卫使其避免被毁林的森林区域。原因是因为其生态系统的脆弱性，以及因为它为数百种动植物提供栖息地。

Code: 3410
English Term: forest conservation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 森林保护
Translation:


Code: 3411
English Term: forest cover destruction
Definition: Destruction of forests is carried out in many countries in order to provide new land for agricultural or livestock purposes. It is often done without factors such as climate and topography having been sufficiently studied and on lands where slope nature of the soil or other physiographic characteristics clearly indicate that the land involved is suitable only for forest. Although these practices may lead to a temporary increase in productivity, there are also many indications that in the long run there is usually a decrease in productivity per unit of surface and that erosion and irreversible soil deterioration often accompany this process. Many factors contribute to forest cover destruction: timber production, clearance for agriculture, cutting for firewood and charcoal, fires, droughts, strip mining, pollution, urban development, population pressures, and warfare.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 森林植被破坏
Translation: 森林的破坏在许多国家都在进行，为农业或畜牧业提供了新的土地。这种开发通常没有经过对气候地形的充分研究，通常也没有考虑这片土地的斜坡性质或其他自然地理特征可能只适合森林。虽然这些做法可能导致暂时增加生产力，从长远来说，通常在每单位面积的生产力下降，土壤的侵蚀和不可逆转的恶化往往伴随着这一过程。许多因素造成了森林覆盖率的破坏：木材生产，农业需要，为切割金属而需要的木柴和木炭，火灾，旱灾，条带开采，污染，城市发展，人口的压力，和战争。

Code: 3414
English Term: forest damage
Definition: Reduction of tree population in forests caused by acidic precipitation, forest fires, air pollution, deforestation, pests and diseases of trees, wildlife, etc.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 森林破坏
Translation: 森林树木数量的减少，主要因为酸性降水，森林火灾，空气污染，森林砍伐，虫害和树木疾病，野生动物等。

Code: 12013
English Term: forest deterioration
Definition: Reduction of tree population in forests caused by acidic precipitation, forest fires, air pollution, deforestation, pests and diseases of trees, wildlife, etc.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 森林退化
Translation: 森林树木数量的减少，主要因为酸性降水，森林火灾，空气污染，森林砍伐，虫害和树木疾病，野生动物等。

Code: 10128
English Term: forest ecology
Definition: The science that deals with the relationship of forest trees to their environment, to one another, and to other plants and to animals in the forest.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 森林生态
Translation: 处理与森林树木环境彼此关系，树木和动植物关系的科学。

Code: 3416
English Term: forest ecosystem
Definition: Any forest environment, in which plants and animals interact with the chemical and physical features of the environment, in which they live.  &#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 森林生态系统
Translation: 任何森林环境中，植物和动物与他们居住的环境的物理化学特性的交互。

Code: 10692
English Term: forest exploitation
Definition: Forests have been exploited over the centuries as a source of wood and for obtaining land for agricultural use. The mismanagement of forest lands and forest resources has led to a situation where the forest is now in rapid retreat. The main aspects of the situation are: serious shortages in the supply of industrial wood; the catastrophic erosion and floods accompanying the stripping of forests from mountainous land; the acute shortages of fuel wood in much of the developing world; the spread of desert conditions at an alarming rate in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world; and the many environmental effects of the destruction of tropical rainforests.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 森林采伐
Translation: 许多世纪以来，森林被用作木材来源和获得农业用地的来源。对林地和森林资源管理不善，导致森林的状况正在迅速恶化。主要方面的状况有：工业木材的供应的严重短缺;随着山区森林的剥除，带来的灾难性的土壤侵蚀和洪水；许多发展中世界燃料木材严重短缺；沙漠在干旱和半干旱地区世界以惊人的速度在扩展；以及热带雨林的破坏造成的许多环境影响。

Code: 3419
English Term: forest fire
Definition: A conflagration in or destroying large wooded areas having a thick growth of trees and plants.  &#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 森林火灾
Translation: 在密集生长树木和植物的地方发生的大火。

Code: 3423
English Term: forest industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of establishments is engaged in the management of an extensive area of woodland, often to produce products and benefits such as timber, wildlife habitat, clean water, biodiversity and recreation.  &#10;(Source: NCF)
Chinese Term: 森林工业
Translation: 工业的一部分，涉及到对大片林区的管理，通常生产产品和获取收益，例如木材，野生动物栖息地，清洁水，生物多样性和娱乐休闲场所。

Code: 3425
English Term: forest management
Definition: Planning of forest utilization for wood production, conservation purposes, fauna and flora protection, recreation and water supply.  &#10;(Source: RFA)
Chinese Term: 森林管理
Translation: 对森林的木材生产，环保目的，动植物保护，娱乐休闲和水的供应的规划。

Code: 3426
English Term: forest pest
Definition: Organisms that damage trees.  &#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 森林病虫害
Translation: 破坏树木的生物。

Code: 3430
English Term: forest policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by government or some other organization, which seeks to preserve or protect an extensive area of woodland, often to produce products and benefits such as timber, wildlife habitat, clean water, biodiversity and recreation.  &#10;(Source: NCF)
Chinese Term: 森林政策
Translation: 由政府或其他组织采取的行动方针，旨在保存和保护大片的林区，同时产生产品和收益，例如木材，野生动物栖息地，清洁水，生物多样性和娱乐休闲。

Code: 3432
English Term: forest product
Definition: Any material afforded by a forest for commercial use, such as tree products and forage.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 森林产品
Translation: 任何由森林提供的商业产品，如树木产品和饲料。

Code: 3431
English Term: forest production
Definition: Forests produce a range of products including firewood and charcoal, lumber, paper, and crops such as coffee, oil palm, and rubber. With careful planning of growth and harvesting, wood and other forest products are, in principle, renewable resources. But achieving renewability takes time - often decades, sometimes centuries. Without careful management, pressure for short-term exploitation can lead to tree removal, soil degradation, and conversion of woodland to other uses. Consumption of forest resources can lead to environmental problems as well as loss of critical habitat and species.  &#10;(Source: WRES)
Chinese Term: 林业生产
Translation: 森林产出许多种产品，包括木柴和木炭、木材、纸张和作物如咖啡、棕榈油、橡胶。如果仔细规划生长和收获，木材和其他森林产品理论上说是可再生资源。但是，实现可再生需要时间，通常是几十年，有时几个世纪。没有经过细致的管理，短期开采的压力可能造成树木的移除、土壤退化、林地改造。森林资源的消耗会导致诸多环境问题以及重要物种栖息地和物种的丧失。

English Term: forest protection
Definition: Branch of forestry concerned with the prevention and control of damage to forests arising from the action of people or livestock, of pests and abiotic agents.  &#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 森林保护
Translation: 与森林保护和控制损害相关的林业科。损害的原因是人或牲畜，害虫和非生物制剂的活动。

Code: 3435
English Term: forest reserve
Definition: Forest area set aside for the purpose of protecting certain fauna and flora, or both.  &#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 森林保护区
Translation: 保护森林区域，目的是保护某些动物和植物，或两者兼而有之。

Code: 3438
English Term: forest resource
Definition: Forest resources consist of two separate but closely related parts: the forest land and the trees (timber) on that land.  &#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 森林资源
Translation: 森林资源包括两个独立但又密切相关的部分：林地和林地上的树木（木材）。

Code: 3437
English Term: forest resource assessment
Definition:
Chinese Term: 森林资源评估
Translation:

Code: 3439
English Term: forestry
Definition: The management of forest lands for wood, forages, water, wildlife, and recreation.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 林业
Translation: 为从森林获取木材，饲料，水，野生动物，和娱乐休闲设施而对森林进行的管理。

Code: 3440
English Term: forestry economics
Definition: The production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services from the industry involved with the process of establishing and managing forests.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 林业经济
Translation: 和建立和管理森林过程相关的商品和服务的生产，分配和消费。

Code: 3441
English Term: forestry law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate any extensive area of woodland, for the protection and preservation of game, timber and other forest resources.  &#10;(Source: MHE)
Chinese Term: 林业法
Translation: 由政府制定的具有约束力的规则或规则的集合，约束大面积林区，使其野生动物，木材和其他森林资源得以保护。

Code: 3442
English Term: forestry legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the use and conservation of wooded areas, most often those owned by the government itself.  &#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 林业立法
Translation: 由政府制定的具有约束力的规则或规则的集合，规定林区的使用和保护，通常这片森林由政府自己所有。

Code: 3444
English Term: forestry practice
Definition: The farming of trees to ensure a continuing supply of timber and other forest products. Foresters care for existing trees, protecting them from fire, pests and diseases, and felling where trees are overcrowded or dying and when ready for cropping. They also plant new areas (afforestation) and replant felled areas (reafforestation).  &#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 林业实践
Translation: 树木的种植，以确保木材和其他森林产品的持续供应。护林者看护现有树木，保护他们免受火灾，虫害和疾病，当树木过盛、死亡或已适合砍伐时进行砍伐。他们还种植新领域（造林）和补种砍伐区（补林）。

Code: 11246
English Term: forestry unit
Definition: Any entity or group of individuals involved with the creation, management and conservation of an extensive area of woodland, often to produce products and benefits such as timber, clean water, biodiversity and recreation.  &#10;(Source: NCF)
Chinese Term: 林业单位
Translation: 任何单位或一组个人，涉及和大面积的林地的创造，管理，保护有关的活动，通常目的是为了产生产品和收益，例如木材，清洁水，生物多样性和娱乐休闲。

Code: 3455
English Term: form of government
Definition: Form of authority in which an individual or group of individuals wield power over the majority.  &#10;(Source: WSU)
Chinese Term: 政体
Translation: 权力的形式，权力由个人或一部分个体对大多数人使用权力。

Code: 14964
English Term: forwarding agent
Definition: A person or business that specializes in the shipment and receiving of goods.  &#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 货运代理
Translation: 专门从事运输和货物接收的个人或企业。

Code: 3460
English Term: fossil
Definition: Any remains, trace, or imprint of a plant or animal that has been preserved in the Earth's crust since some past geologic or prehistoric time.  &#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 化石
Translation: 从过去的一些地质或史前的时间点开始保存在地壳中的任何遗骸、踪迹，或一种植物或动物的印记。

Code: 3462
English Term: fossil fuel
Definition: The energy-containing materials which were converted over many thousands of years from their original form of trees, plants and other organisms after being buried in the ground. Physical and chemical processes occurred in the Earth's crust that changed them into coal, peat, oil or natural gas.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 化石燃料
Translation: 包含有能量的物质，该物质是经过千万年的变化，从原始的动植物或有机物形式，通过在地下的掩埋形成。地壳内部进行的物理化学变化，使其变成煤、泥炭、石油或天然气。

Code: 3465
English Term: fouling growth
Definition: The adhesion of different marine organisms to the underwater parts of ships, causing the ships to loose speed.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 污垢增长
Translation: 不同的海洋生物附着在船舶的水下部分，使船速度减慢。

Code: 12240
English Term: fountain
Definition: A stream of water that is forced up into the air through a small hole, especially for decorative effect or the structure in a lake or pool from which this flows.  &#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 喷泉
Translation: 一柱水由力的作用通过小孔喷向天空，特别在池塘或湖泊里起到装饰效果。

Code: 3469
English Term: four stroke engine
Definition: An internal combustion engine whose cycle is completed in four piston strokes; includes a suction stroke, compression stroke, expansion stroke, and exhaust stroke.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 四冲程发动机
Translation: 内燃机，其周期是由四个活塞冲程完成;包括吸气冲程、压缩冲程、膨胀冲程和排气冲程。

Code: 3474
English Term: framework legislation
Definition: A body of rules prescribed by a government, often composed in a series of inter-related parts, to establish or lay the foundation for a new project, agency or organizational structure.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 框架立法
Translation: 一个由政府机构规定的规则，通常由一系列相关部分组成，目的是为新的项目、机构或组织结构打好基础。

Code: 13152
English Term: free movement of capital
Definition: The unrestrained flow of cash, funds, and other means of wealth between countries with different currencies.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 资本自由流动
Translation: 现金、资金和其他财产形式在国家间以不同汇率不受约束的流通。

Code: 11100
English Term: free trade
Definition: Trade which is unimpeded by tariffs, import and export quotas and other measures which obstruct the free movement of goods and services between states.  &#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 自由贸易
Translation: 不受关税、进口和出口配额和其他阻碍国家间货物和服务自由流通措施限制的贸易。

Code: 13178
English Term: freedom
Definition: The quality or state of being free, especially to enjoy political and civil liberties.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 自由
Translation: 自由的状态，特别是享有政治和公民自由。

Code: 3481
English Term: freight transport
Definition: Transportation of goods by ship, aircraft or other vehicles.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 货运
Translation: 通过船舶，飞机或其他交通工具运输货物。

Code: 10225
English Term: French formal garden
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 法国正式花园
Translation:


Code: 3483
English Term: freon
Definition: Trade name for a group of polyhalogenated hydrocarbons containing fluorine and chlorine; an example is trichlorofluoromethane.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 氟利昂
Translation: 一组多卤代碳氢化合物，包含氟和氯；例如三氯化物。

Code: 3485
English Term: freshwater
Definition: Water having a relatively low mineral content, generally less than 500 mg/l of dissolved solids.  &#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 淡水
Translation: 矿物质含量相对较低的水，通常少于溶解固体少于500 mg/l.

Code: 3487
English Term: freshwater biology
Definition: The scientific study or the characteristic life processes of living organisms found in a natural body of water that does not contain significant amounts of dissolved salts and minerals, such as a lake or river.  &#10;(Source: WOR / APD)
Chinese Term: 淡水生物学
Translation: 对生活在含有较少含量溶解盐和矿物质的湖泊或河流中的生物进行的科学研究。

Code: 1704
English Term: freshwater conservation
Definition: Controlled utilization, protection or improvement of a natural body of water that does not contain significant amounts of dissolved salts and minerals, such as a lake or river.  &#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 淡水保护
Translation: 对较少含量溶解盐和矿物质的湖泊水或河水进行的控制利用，保护或改善。

Code: 3488
English Term: freshwater degradation
Definition: Pollution immediately or eventually involves the hydrological cycle of the earth, because even pollutants emitted into the air and those present in the soil are washed out by precipitation. Water is considered polluted when it is altered in composition or condition so that it becomes less suitable for any or all of the functions and purposes for which it would be suitable in its natural state. This definition includes changes in the physical, chemical and biological properties of water, or such discharges of liquid, gaseous or solid substances into water as will or are likely to create nuisances or render such water harmful to public health, safety or welfare, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, fish or other aquatic life. It also includes changes in temperatures, due to the discharge of hot water.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 淡水恶化
Translation: 涉及到地球水循环的即时或最终的污染，因为即使污染物排放到空气和土壤中，也会逐渐洗涤沉淀。当水的成分或条件发生变化使其不再适合它原先在自然状态下的某些或全部功用时，认为是水被被污染了。这个定义包括水的物理，化学和生物学特性的变化，或液体、气体或固体物质进入水中，造成或可能造成麻烦或使水对公共健康、公共安全、公共财产造成危害，或对住宅、商业、工业、农业、鱼类或其他水生生物造成危害。同时也包括水温的变化，如排放热水。

Code: 3489
English Term: freshwater ecosystem
Definition: The living organisms and nonliving materials of an inland aquatic environment.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 淡水生态系统
Translation: 内陆水环境中的生物和非生物。

Code: 3491
English Term: freshwater monitoring
Definition:
Chinese Term: 淡水监测
Translation:


Code: 3492
English Term: freshwater organism
Definition: Organisms which live in freshwater.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 淡水生物
Translation: 淡水中的生物。

Code: 3493
English Term: freshwater pollution
Definition: The direct or indirect human alteration of the biological, physical, chemical or radiological integrity of freshwater.  &#10;(Source: Landy)
Chinese Term: 淡水污染
Translation: 人类直接或间接地改变淡水的生物、物理、化学或辐射完整性。

Code: 3494
English Term: freshwater resource
Definition: The network of rivers, lakes, and other surface waters that supply water for food production and other essential human systems.  &#10;(Source: ENVNEL)
Chinese Term: 淡水资源
Translation: 河流、湖泊和其他地表水网络，为食物生产和其他重要人类活动提供水源。

Code: 3495
English Term: frog
Definition: Any insectivorous anuran amphibian of the family Ranidae, such as Rana temporaria of Europe, having a short squat tailless body with a moist smooth skin and very long hind legs specialized for hopping.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 蛙
Translation: 蛙科中的食虫无尾类两栖动物，例如欧洲林蛙，有矮而无尾的躯体，湿润光滑的皮肤以及特别利于跳跃的长后腿。

Code: 3496
English Term: frost
Definition: A deposit of interlocking ice crystals formed by direct sublimation on objects.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 霜
Translation: 由物质直接升华而产生的联锁冰晶体。

Code: 3498
English Term: fruit
Definition: A fully matured plant ovary with or without other floral or shoot parts united with it at maturity.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水果
Translation: 完全成熟的植物子房，成熟时可能有或没有花卉与其连接。

Code: 3499
English Term: fruit cultivation
Definition: Cultivation of fruit trees for home consumption or on a commercial basis.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 水果种植
Translation: 为家庭消费或商业基础而种植的果树。

Code: 3502
English Term: fruit tree
Definition: Any tree that bears edible fruit.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 果树
Translation: 可以产出可食用果实的树。

Code: 3505
English Term: fuel
Definition: Solid, liquid, or gaseous material such as gas, gasoline, oil, coal or wood, used to produce heat or power by burning.  &#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 燃料
Translation: 固体、液体或气体物质，如天然气、汽油、石油、煤炭和木材，通过燃烧获得热和能量。

Code: 3506
English Term: fuel additive
Definition: Substance (such as tetraethyl lead) which is added to petrol to prevent knocking.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 燃油添加剂
Translation: 添加入汽油的物质（如四乙基铅），以减少爆震音。

Code: 3507
English Term: fuel alcohol
Definition: Alternative source of energy for motor vehicles. It is produced by fermentation of sugar cane by the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  &#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 燃料酒精
Translation: 汽车能源的替代品。它是由基于酿酒酵母的甘蔗发酵而产出的。

Code: 3509
English Term: fuel composition
Definition:
Chinese Term: 燃料成分
Translation:


Code: 3510
English Term: fuel consumption
Definition: The amount of fuel utilized.  &#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 燃料消耗量
Translation: 燃料消耗的量.

Code: 3512
English Term: fuel oil
Definition: A liquid product burned to generate heat, exclusive of oils with a flash point below 38°C; includes heating oils, stove oils, furnace oils, bunker fuel oils.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 燃料油
Translation: 液体产品，通过燃烧来获得热能，尤其指的是燃点低于38°C的燃油；包括取暖油、油炉、炉油、船用燃料油。

Code: 3516
English Term: fuel tank installation
Definition: The operating, fuel-storage component of a fuel system.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 油箱安装
Translation: 燃料系统中对燃油储藏装置进行的操作。

Code: 3517
English Term: fuel wood
Definition: Wood used for heating.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 薪柴
Translation: 用来取热的木头。

Code: 3518
English Term: fume
Definition: Solids in the air that have been generated by the condensation of vapors, chemical reactions or sublimation (a direct change from solid to gas). Often metallic oxides or metals, these particles are less than 1 micrometer in diameter and may be toxic.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 烟
Translation: 由蒸汽凝结，化学反应或升华（由固体直接变为气体）在空气中产生的固体。通常是金属氧化物或金属，颗粒的直径小于1微米，而且可能有毒。

Code: 3521
English Term: fumigation
Definition: The use of a chemical compound in a gaseous state to kill insects, nematodes, arachnids, rodents, weeds, and fungi in confined or inaccessible locations; also used to control weeds, nematodes, and insects in the field.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 烟熏
Translation: 使用气态化合物来杀死可达或不可达位置的昆虫，线虫，蛛形纲动物，啮齿类动物，杂草，真菌；也被用于控制田间的杂草，线虫，昆虫。

Code: 3522
English Term: functional substance
Definition: A substance from the point of view of its function or purpose, for example a painting agent or a preserving substance.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 功能性物质
Translation: 从功能或目的角度出发的有用的物质。例如涂料或储藏物。

Code: 3530
English Term: fungicide
Definition: Chemicals used to kill or halt the development of fungi that cause plant disease, such as: storage rot; seedling diseases; root rots; vascular wilts; leaf blights, rusts, smuts and mildews, and viral diseases. These can be controlled by the early and continued application of selected fungicides that either kill the pathogens or restrict their development.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 杀菌剂
Translation: 用来杀死或制止真菌病害生长的化学品，例如存储腐烂;苗期病害，根腐烂，血管枯萎，叶摧残，生锈，斯马茨和霉菌，病毒疾病。这些病害可以在早期或持续使用某些杀菌剂来控制，原理是要么杀死病原体，要么限制其生长。

Code: 3529
English Term: fungus
Definition: Nucleated usually filamentous, sporebearing organisms devoid of chlorophyll.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 真菌
Translation: 无叶绿素的丝状，孢子真核生物。

Code: 3533
English Term: fur
Definition: The hair-covered, dressed pelt of such a mammal, used in the making of garments and as trimming or decoration.  &#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 毛皮
Translation: 哺乳动物掩体的毛发，皮毛，可以用来制作衣服、配料或装饰。

Code: 3535
English Term: fur animal
Definition: Animals bred and slaughtered for their fur.  &#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 毛皮动物
Translation: 为取其毛皮而饲养的动物。

Code: 3536
English Term: furan
Definition: A colourless flammable toxic liquid heterocyclic compound, used in the synthesis of nylon.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 呋喃
Translation: 一种无色易燃有毒液体杂环化合物，在尼龙的合成中起作用。

Code: 3538
English Term: furnace
Definition: A structure or apparatus in which heat is produced by the combustion of fuel, often to warm houses, melt metals, produce steam and bake pottery.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 炉
Translation: 一种结构或仪器，可以在其中燃烧燃料取热。通常用做温暖屋子，熔融金属，产生蒸汽和烤陶器。

Code: 3539
English Term: furniture
Definition: The movable articles in a room or an establishment that make it fit for living or working.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 家具
Translation: 室内的可移动物品，或方便工作和生活的物品。

Code: 3540
English Term: furniture industry
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 家具业
Translation:


Code: 3542
English Term: furriery
Definition: The business or trade of dressed furs and garments made from the coats of certain animals.  &#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 毛皮商
Translation: 用动物毛皮制作衣服的商业。

Code: 3548
English Term: gallinacean
Definition: The order of birds that includes grouse, ptarmigan, capercaillie, partridges, pheasants, quails, turkeys and peacocks. These are mainly grain-eating, heavy-bodied, ground-nesting birds, capable of only short, rapid flights. The cocks are usually more colourful than the hens.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 鹑鸡
Translation: 鸟目，包括松鸡，鹧鸪，松鸡，鹧鸪，山鸡，鹌鹑，火鸡和孔雀。他们是主要吃粮食，体重重，在地面筑巢的鸟类。只能进行短时间较矮飞行。雄性比雌性鲜艳。

Code: 3550
English Term: galvanisation
Definition: The act of coating iron or steel with zinc, either by immersion in a bath of molten zinc or by deposition from a solution of zinc sulphate, to give protection against corrosion.  &#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 电镀公司
Translation: 在钢铁表面镀锌的工作，可以通过沉浸在熔化的锌液中或从硫酸锌溶液中沉淀的方式完成，保护其不受腐蚀。

Code: 3553
English Term: game (animals)
Definition: Wild animals, including birds and fish, hunted for sport, food or profit.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 野生（动物）
Translation: 野生动物，包括鸟和鱼，捕捉用来体育竞技，作为食物或获取利益。

Code: 10721
English Term: game (play)
Definition: An amusement or pastime; diversion.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 游戏（娱乐）
Translation: 打发时间的娱乐；消遣。

Code: 3554
English Term: gamma radiation
Definition: Radiation of gamma rays.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 伽马辐射
Translation: 伽玛射线辐射。

Code: 3559
English Term: garden
Definition: A piece of land next to a house where flowers and other plants are grown and which often has an area of grass.  &#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 花园
Translation: 房屋旁边的一块地，其中生长着花朵和其他植物，通常有一片种草的区域。

Code: 3562
English Term: garden waste
Definition: Natural organic matter discarded from gardens and yards including leaves, grass clippings, prunings, brush and stumps.  &#10;(Source: DMG)
Chinese Term: 庭院废物
Translation: 花园和院落产生的天然有机物废料，包括树叶，修剪的草，灌木和树桩。

Code: 3564
English Term: garrigue
Definition: Mediterranean bush consisting of low evergreen shrubs and abundant herbaceous plants.  &#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 盖瑞治
Translation: 由低常绿灌木和草本植物组成的地中海灌木丛。

Code: 3566
English Term: gas
Definition: A substance that continues to occupy in a continuous manner the whole of the space in which it is placed, however large or small this place is mad, the temperature remaining constant.  &#10;(Source: PITT)
Chinese Term: 气体
Translation: 在它所在空间中连续分部的物质，但是快速增大或减小这一体积，温度不变。

Code: 3567
English Term: gas chromatography
Definition: A separation technique involving passage of a gaseous moving phase through a column containing a fixed phase; it is used principally as a quantitative analytical technique for volatile compounds.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 气相色谱法
Translation: 分离技术，将气体物质通过移动相柱；定量分析技术用于分析挥发性化合物。
Code: 3570
English Term: gas company
Definition: Company charged with the production and distribution of gas for domestic use.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 煤气公司
Translation: 公司负责生产和分发国内使用的天然气。

Code: 3571
English Term: gas engine
Definition: An internal combustion engine that uses gaseous fuel.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 天然气发动机
Translation: 使用气体燃料的内燃机。

Code: 3582
English Term: gas liquefaction
Definition: Conversion of a gas to the liquid phase by cooling or compression.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 液化天然气
Translation: 通过冷却或压缩把气体转化为液相。

Code: 3585
English Term: gas mixture
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 混合气体
Translation:


Code: 3586
English Term: gas network
Definition: Interconnected system of pipes for the distribution and supply of gas.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 燃气管网
Translation: 提供和分配燃气的管道网络。

Code: 3591
English Term: gas pipeline
Definition: A long pipe, especially underground, used to transport gas over long distances.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 天然气管道
Translation: 长管道，尤其是地下，用于长途运输天然气。

Code: 3593
English Term: gas powered plant
Definition: Power station which burns gas, as opposed to a coal-fired station or nuclear power station.  &#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 燃气电厂
Translation: 燃烧的气体发电的电站，不同于燃煤发电厂或核电厂。

Code: 3594
English Term: gas purification
Definition: Removal of pollutants or contaminants from waste incineration or other combustion processes.  &#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 气体净化
Translation: 废物焚化或其他燃烧过程中，去除污染物和有毒废物。

Code: 3596
English Term: gas reservoir
Definition: Large tank for storing coal gas or natural gas.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 气藏
Translation: 大罐储存煤气或天然气。

Code: 3599
English Term: gas supply
Definition: The provision and storage of any fuel gas, or the amount of any fuel gas stored, for the use of a municipality, or other fuel gas user.  &#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 燃气供应
Translation: 气体燃料的提供和存储，或供市民或其他使用者使用的大量燃料。

Code: 3572
English Term: gaseous air pollutant
Definition: Uncondensed or volatile gases, usually comprised of chemical compounds, discharged to the atmosphere.  &#10;(Source: DEE)
Chinese Term: 气状污染物
Translation: 凝结或挥发性气体，通常是化合物，排放到大气中。

Code: 3577
English Term: gaseous state
Definition: State of matter in which the matter concerned occupies the whole of its container irrespective of its quantity.  &#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 气态
Translation: 物质形态，无论量的多少，总是占据容纳它的整个空间。

Code: 3581
English Term: gasification
Definition: 1) Any chemical or heat process used to convert a substance to a gas. &#10;2) The production of gaseous fuels by reacting hot carbonaceous materials with air, steam or oxygen. The process takes place at high temperature. The gasification product is a mixture of combustible gases and tar compounds, together with particles and water vapour. Depending on the gasification method, the proportion of components varies, but common to all the processes is that the gas has to be purified before it can be used directly in a gas engine or a gas turbine.&#10;(Source: MGH /  PORT)
Chinese Term: 气化
Translation: 1）任何化学或热转换过程，使物质变为气体。&#10;2）通过热碳材料与空气，蒸汽或氧气的反应，生产气态燃料。这个过程需要在高温下进行。气化产品是一种可燃气体，焦油化合物的混合物，同时还有微粒和水蒸气。根据不同的气化方法，混合物的组成比例各不相同，但所有过程的共同点是，气体在直接进入引擎和燃气涡轮机之前会被纯化。

Code: 3587
English Term: gasohol
Definition: A mixture of 80% or 90% petrol with 20% or 10% ethyl alcohol, for use as a fuel in internal combustion engines.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 乙醇汽油
Translation: 20％或10％乙醇混合80％或90％的汽油，用作内燃机燃料。

Code: 3589
English Term: gasoline engine
Definition: An internal combustion engine that uses a mixture of air and gasoline vapour as a fuel.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 汽油发动机
Translation: 使用空气和汽油蒸气的混合物作为燃料的内燃机。

Code: 3600
English Term: gastropod
Definition: Any mollusc of the class Gastropoda, typically having a flattened muscular foot for locomotion and a head that bears stalked eyes.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 腹足动物
Translation: 任何腹足类软体动物，一般具有用于运动的扁平肌肉足，以及含有追踪能力眼睛的头部。

Code: 3604
English Term: gaswork
Definition: Place where gas, especially coal gas, is made.  &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 燃气制造厂
Translation: 制造燃气，尤其是煤气的地方。

Code: 3611
English Term: gender issue
Definition: A point, matter or dispute concerning the capabilities, societal roles or other differences and divisions between women and men, especially the relative weight of biological and physical difference versus culture and socialization as a cause of those distinctions.  &#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 性别问题
Translation: 关于男女人能力，社会职责或其他区别和差异的争论或论点，尤其要指出的是生物和物理差异以及文化、社会的对立是产生这些区别的基础。

Code: 3617
English Term: gene
Definition: A unit of heredity composed of DNA occupying a fixed position on a chromosome. A gene may determine a characteristic of an individual by specifying a polypeptide chain that forms a protein or part of a protein (structural gene); or repress such operation (repressor gene).  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 基因
Translation: 一组遗传物质，是DNA的组成部分，在染色体上有固定位置。基因能决定个体性状，通过描述组成蛋白质或部分蛋白质的多肽链（结构基因）或组织这种操作（抑制基因）来做到这一点。

Code: 3613
English Term: gene bank
Definition: Storehouses of seeds or vegetative tissue, kept in low humidity and temperature, to help maintain genetic diversity. Sometimes known as seed banks or germ plasm banks. their contents mostly originate from a wide range of primitive strains and wild crop varieties. The International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR), which was established in 1974, promotes the collection, documentation, evaluation, conservation and eventual use of genetic resources of significant plant species. Gene banks are the subject of international controversy because they contain seeds that have mostly been acquired from the developing countries by the industrially rich countries, where they have been used in breeding programmes to develop new strains. Instead of taking decades over a traditional plant breeding programme by fertilization, it is now possible to manipulate directly the genes of plants, creating genetically modified organisms (GMOs), which are plants modified to give a higher resistance to disease and improved growth and yields and, therefore, increase the profit of the plant breeder and farmer.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 基因库
Translation: 种子或植物组织的仓库，在低温和低湿度下保存，以帮助保持遗传多样性。有时也被称为种子银行或生殖原生质银行。其内容主要是源于一种原始品种和野生作物。于1974年成立的国际植物遗传资源委员会，促进重大植物物种的遗传资源的收集，记录，评价，保护和最终使用。基因库是国际争论的主题，因为它们大部分是由工业发达国家从发展中国家获得的，而这些发展中国家有自己的育种计划来开发新品种。原来需要通过几十年的时间通过传统施肥方案植物育种，现在有可能通过直接操控植物基因，创造改造微生物，而获得更好的抗病性以及更高的生产率，因此能够比差同育种方案产生更大的收益。

Code: 3614
English Term: general administrative order
Definition: An administrative mandate outlining the process by which a concept, plan, decree or law is to be put into actual practice by a specific organization or government agency.  &#10;(Source: DAM)
Chinese Term: 一般行政秩序
Translation: 政府，组织提出的概念，计划，法令或法律的实施的行政过程大纲。

Code: 3615
English Term: general chemistry
Definition: The study of the elements and the compounds they form.  &#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 普通化学
Translation: 对元素和它们形成的化合物的研究。

Code: 13308
English Term: general education
Definition: Informal learning or formal instruction with broad application to human existence beyond the domain of any particular subject or discipline, often equated with liberal arts in the university setting and contrasted to courses required for a specific major or program.  &#10;(Source: ISEP /  COE)
Chinese Term: 通识教育
Translation: 超越了任何特定主题或学科领域，对人类生存有广泛应用的，正式或非正式学习。经常等同于在大学教育中的文科教育，区别于特定学科和方向所必修的课程。

Code: 3620
English Term: genetic diversity
Definition: The variation between individuals and between populations within a species.  &#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 遗传多样性
Translation: 个体或同一物种种群中的变化。

Code: 3621
English Term: genetic effect
Definition: Inheritable change, chiefly mutations produced by chemical substances, herbicides, radiations, etc.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 遗传效应
Translation: 由化学物质，药物，辐射等造成的可遗传的变化，主要是基因突变。

Code: 3624
English Term: genetic engineering
Definition: 1) The complex of techniques for the production of new genes and the alteration of the structure of the chromosomes to produce effects beneficial to man, in agriculture and medicine.&#10;2) The intentional production of new genes and alteration of genomes by the substitution or addition of new genetic material.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN /  MGH)
Chinese Term: 基因工程
Translation: 1）产生新基因或改变染色体结构以产生对人类有利的效果的复杂技术&#10;2）通过添加和替换基因材料，刻意制造新基因或改变基因

Code: 3625
English Term: genetic engineering legislation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 基因工程法规
Translation:


Code: 3628
English Term: genetic information
Definition: The information for protein synthesis contained in the nucleotide sequences of the DNA polynucleotide chain.  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 遗传信息
Translation: DNADNA核苷酸序列的多核苷酸链携带的关于蛋白质合成的信息。

Code: 3630
English Term: genetic modification
Definition: Inheritable changes produced by ionizing radiation, exposure to certain chemicals, ingestion of some medication and from other causes.&#10;(Source: CONFER)
Chinese Term: 基因改造
Translation: 由电离辐射，接触某些化学物质，摄取某些药物和其他原因产生的可遗传变异。

Code: 11875
English Term: genetic pool
Definition: The total number of genes or the amount of genetic information possessed by all the reproductive members of a population of sexually reproducing organisms.  &#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 基因库
Translation: 有性繁殖能力的种群成员携带的基因总量或基因信息。

Code: 3632
English Term: genetic resource
Definition: The gene pool in natural and cultivated stocks of organisms that are available for human exploitation. It is desirable to maintain as diverse a range of organisms as possible, particularly of domesticated cultivars and their ancestors, in order to maintain a wide genetic base. The wider the genetic base, the greater the capacity for adaptation to particular environmental conditions.  &#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 遗传资源
Translation: 可供人类开发的自然和耕种作物的基因库。为了维持一个广泛的遗传基础库，其中的不同类型的生物越多越好，特别是家养品种和他们的原种。基础库的范围越广，适应特定的环境条件的能力就越大。

Code: 3634
English Term: genetic variation
Definition: Change in one or more phenotypic characteristics, due to gene mutation or rearrangement, environmental effects, etc.  &#10;(Source: DELFIN)
Chinese Term: 遗传变异
Translation: 由于基因改变或重组，环境影响，一个或多个表现型特征的变化。

Code: 14602
English Term: genetically modified organism
Definition: An organism that has undergone external processes by which its basic set of genes has been altered.  &#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 基因改造生物
Translation: 一种基本基因被外部过程修改过的生物。

Code: 3633
English Term: genetics
Definition: The science that is concerned with the study of biological inheritance.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 遗传学
Translation: 研究生物遗传的科学。

Code: 11762
English Term: genotoxicity
Definition:
Chinese Term: 基因毒性
Translation:


Code: 3638
English Term: geodesy
Definition: A subdivision of geophysics which includes determination of the size and shape of the earth, the earth's gravitational field, and the location of points fixed to the earth's crust in an earth-referred coordinate system.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 大地测量
Translation: 地球物理学分支，主要包括决定地球的性状和大小，地球的引力场，地球坐标系统中地壳中的固定点位置。

Code: 3640
English Term: geogenic factor
Definition: Geogenic factors are those which originate in the soil, as opposed to those of anthropic origin (anthropogenic).  &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 环境地球化学因素
Translation: 源于土壤，而非源于人（人为）的因素。

Code: 10146
English Term: geographic circque
Definition: A deep steep-walled half-bowl-like recess or hollow, variously described as horseshoe- or crescent-shaped or semi-circular in plan, situated high on the side of a mountain and commonly at the head of a glacial valley and produced by the erosive activity of a mountain glacier. It often contains a small round lake, and it may or may not be occupied by ice or snow.  &#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 高山冰积洼地
Translation: 深陡峭壁形或半钵状深凹或山谷，在图示中表示为蹄形或新月形或半环形。位于较高的山边，通常在一个冰川头部，由冰川的侵蚀活动形成。它通常包含一个小圆湖，其中有或没有冰雪。

Code: 3645
English Term: geographic information system
Definition: An organized collection of computer hardware, software, geographic data, and personnel designed to efficiently capture, store, update, manipulate, analyze, and display all forms of geographically referenced information that can be drawn from different sources, both statistical and mapped.  &#10;(Source: SFRC /  GILP96)
Chinese Term: 地理信息系统
Translation: 一个计算机硬件，软件，地理数据和人员的组合，以有效的捕获，存储，更新，处理，分析和显示一切形式的，从不同来源得到的地理参照信息，可以是统计数据和地图。

Code: 13326
English Term: geographical distribution of population
Definition: The number of inhabitants in or spread across designated subdivisions of an area, region, city or country.  &#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 人口地理分布
Translation: 在指定区域，如同一地区，城市，或国家里的居民数。

Code: 14934
English Term: geographical projection
Definition: A representation of the globe constructed on a plane with lines representative of and corresponding to the meridians and parallels of the curved surface of the earth.  &#10;(Source: GIS /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 地理投影
Translation: 在一个平面内建立起的地球构造，用线条代表经纬，用平行的线条表达地球的曲面。

Code: 3646
English Term: geography
Definition: The study of the natural features of the earth's surface, comprising topography, climate, soil, vegetation, etc. and man's response to them.  &#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 地理学
Translation: 对地球表面的自然特征的研究，包括地形，气候，土壤，植被等，以及人类对其的反应。

Code: 3647
English Term: geological disaster
Definition: Disasters caused by movements and deformation of the earth's crust.  &#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 地质灾害
Translation: 由于地球运动和地壳变形引起灾害。

Code: 3648
English Term: geological process
Definition: Dynamic actions or events that occur at the Earth's surface due to application of natural forces resulting from gravity, temperature changes, freezing and thawing, chemical reactions, seismic shaking, and the agencies of wind and moving water, ice and snow. Where and when a force exceeds the strength of the earth material, the material is changed by deformation, translocation, or chemical reactions.  &#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 地质过程
Translation: 由于重力，温度变化，冻融，化学反应，地震摇晃，风和水，冰和雪的作用而使地表发生的动态变化或事件。当受力超过地球的物质的承受能力，物质会因为变形，移位，或化学反应发生变化。

Code: 3650
English Term: geology
Definition: The study or science of the earth, its history, and its life as recorded in the rocks; includes the study of geologic features of an area, such as the geometry of rock formations, weathering and erosion, and sedimentation.  &#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 地质学
Translation: 研究地球及其历史，以及岩石中记载的生命过程的科学。包括对一个地区的地质特征的研究，如岩层几何分布，风化和侵蚀，和沉积作用。


Code: 14909
English Term: geometric correction
Definition: A remote sensing term referring to the adjustment of an image for geometric errors.&#10;(Source: DWEB)
Chinese Term: 几何校正
Translation: 遥感术语，意思是因几何错误而作的影像调整。(来源: DWEB)

Code:3652
English Term: geomorphic process
Definition:The physical and chemical interactions between the Earth's surface and the natural forces acting upon it to produce landforms. The processes are determined by such natural environmental variables as geology, climate, vegetation and baselevel, to say nothing of human interference. The nature of the process and the rate at which it operates will be influenced by a change in any of these variables.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 地貌形成过程
Translation:地球表面和作用其上的自然力之间的物理和化学交互作用。此过程由地质情况、气候、植被、基准面等自然环境变量来决定，与人为影响无关。而这些变量中任意一个的改变都会影响这个过程的本质和进度。（来源：WHIT）

Code:3654
English Term: geomorphology
Definition: The study of the classification, description, nature, origin, and development of present landforms and their relationships to underlying structures, and of the history of geologic changes as recorded by these surface features.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 地形学
Translation: 对目前地形的分类，描述，性质，起源和发展及其与底层结构的联系，和地表特征所记录的地质变化历史所进行的研究。（来源：BJGEO）

Code: 13195
English Term: geophysical environment
Definition: The physical earth and its surroundings, consisting of the oceans and inland waters, lower and upper atmosphere, space, land masses and land forms.&#10;(Source: APD / ENZ)
Chinese Term:地球物理环境
Translation: 物理上的地球和其包围的环境，包括海洋、内陆水、低空和高空大气圈、太空、陆地块、陆地地形等。(来源: APD / ENZ)

Code:3655
English Term: geophysics
Definition:The physics of the earth and its environment, that is, earth, air and space.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 地球物理学
Translation: 地球和地球环境的物理构造，也就是地球、大气和太空。(来源: MGH)

Code: 14933
English Term: geo-referenced data
Definition:
Chinese Term: 地理参考数据
Translation:

Code: 14857
English Term: geo-referenced information
Definition: Data delimiting a given object, either physical or conceptual, in terms of its spatial relationship to the land, usually consisting of points, lines, areas or volumes defined in terms of some coordinate system.&#10;(Source: GIS)
Chinese Term: 地理参考信息
Translation: 根据土地的空间关系，包括根据一些坐标系统定义的点、线、面或体积，从物理和概念上给一个特定的对象定界的数据。

Code: 12665
English Term: geotechnics
Definition: The application of scientific methods and engineering principles to civil engineering problems through acquiring, interpreting, and using knowledge of materials of the crust of the earth.
Chinese Term: 地质技术学；土工学
Translation:通过探测跟踪、判断读取和使用地壳原料的知识，运用科学方法和工程原理在土木工程问题的应用。

Code: 3657
English Term: geotechnology
Definition: The application of scientific methods and engineering techniques to the exploitation and use of natural resources.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:地球工程学
Translation:科学方法和工程技术在自然资源的探测和使用方面的应用(来源: BJGEO)

Code: 3658
English Term: geothermal energy
Definition: An energy produced by tapping the earth's internal heat. At present, the only available technologies to do this are those that extract heat from hydrothermal convection systems, where water or steam transfer the heat from the deeper part of the earth to the areas where the energy can be tapped. The amount of pollutants found in geothermal vary from area to area but may contain arsenic, boron, selenium, lead, cadmium, and fluorides. They also may contain hydrogen sulphide, mercury, ammonia, radon, carbon dioxide, and methane.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 地热能
Translation:通过开发地球内部热量而产生的能量。目前唯一能够这样做的技术是从水热对流系统中提取出热量。水热对流系统是通过水或蒸汽将热量从地球深处向能量能被提取的地方转移。地热中含有的污染物的多少根据区域的不同而不同，包括砷、硼、硒、铅、镉氟化物，也包括硫化氢、汞、氨、氡、二氧化碳和甲烷等。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 3661
English Term: germ
Definition: 1) A pathogenic micro-organism.&#10; 2) Living substance capable of developing into an organ, part, or organism as a whole; a primordium.
Chinese Term: 微生物、细菌；胚原基
Translation: 1）一种能引发疾病的微生物&#10;2）能够进化成一个器官，一部分或整个有机体的活性物质；一种原基

Code: 3664
English Term: germ plasm
Definition: The hereditary material transmitted to the offspring via the gametes.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:遗传物质，基因物质
Translation:通过交配传播给子代的遗传物质。(来源: LBC)

Code: 3663
English Term: germination
Definition: The beginning or the process of development of a spore or seed.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:胚芽
Translation:孢子或种子生长过程的开始。(来源: MGH)

Code: 14917
English Term: GIS digital format
Definition: The digital form of data collected by remote sensing.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term:地理信息系统数字形式
Translation:通过遥感收集的数据的数字形式。(来源: YOUNG)

Code: 14916
English Term: GIS digital system
Definition: An organized collection of computer hardware, software, geographic data, and personnel designed to efficiently capture, store, update, manipulate, analyze, and display all forms of geographically referenced information that can be drawn from different sources, both statistical and mapped.&#10;(Source: SFRC / GILP96)
Chinese Term: 地理信息系统数字系统
Translation:一种计算机硬件、软件、地理数据和人事部门的有组织的收集，旨在有效获取、存储、更新、操纵、分析和显示各种形式的地理参照信息，可以从不同的来源，如统计数据和绘制地图来绘画。(来源: SFRC / GILP96)

Code: 14924
English Term: GIS digital technique
Definition: The transformation to digital form of data collected by remote sensing, traditional field and documentary methods and of existing historical data such as paper maps, charts, and publications.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 地理信息系统数字技术
Translation: 对由遥感，传统领域和文件的方法和现有的历史数据,如纸张地图，图表和出版物等收集的数据以数字形式转变。对由遥感技术收集的数据、传统领域和文件方式（存储）的数据以及现有的历史数据，如纸张地图，图表和出版物等，向数字形式进行转变的技术。

Code:14939
English Term: GIS laboratory
Definition: A laboratory where GIS data drawn from different sources are stored, handled, analyzed and updated.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term:地理信息系统实验室
Translation: 一个来自不同来源的地理信息系统数据被存储、处理、分析和更新的实验室。

Code: 3673
English Term: glacier
Definition: Slow moving masses of ice which have accumulated either on mountains or in polar regions. They are found where warm, moist air or warm water meets cold air or water. They move, influenced by the force of gravity and the pressure of the ice, above the underlying slush layers and slide downhill, eventually melting at lower levels to form rivers or reaching sea-level, where they form ice shelves or fall into the water as icebergs.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:冰河，冰川
Translation: 积聚在高山或者极地地区的缓慢移动的冰块。可以发现它们存在于有温暖潮湿的大气处或者热水流与冷水流相遇的地方。它们的移动受地心引力作用和冰的压力的影响，高于基本烂泥层和下滑坡，最终会融化到低层形成河流或到达海平面形成冰架或以冰山形式掉进海里。(来源: WRIGHT)

Code: 3676
English Term: glaciology
Definition: 1) The study of all aspects of snow and ice; the science that treats quantitatively the whole range of processes associated with all forms of solid existing water. 2) The study of existing glaciers and ice sheets, and of their physical properties.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term:冰河学
Translation: 1）冰雪所有方面的研究；定量地对与各种形式的固态现存水及相关全部范围内的过程进行探讨的科学。(来源: BJGEO)

Code: 3678
English Term: glass
Definition: A hard, amorphous, inorganic, usually transparent, brittle substance made by fusing silicates, sometimes borates and phosphates, with certain basic oxides and then rapidly cooling to prevent crystallization.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 玻璃
Translation: 一种坚固、非晶态、无机、通常为透明的易碎的物质。通过熔融硅胶酸，（有时候是硼酸盐和磷酸盐），混合一些特定的氧化物并迅速冷却以防止结晶，而制成。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3681
English Term: glass industry
Definition: Industry for the production of glassware.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 玻璃制造业
Translation:玻璃器具的制造工业。(来源: CED)

Code: 12091
English Term: glaze
Definition: A coating of ice, generally clear and smooth but usually containing some air pockets, formed on exposed objects by the freezing of a film of supercooled water deposited by rain, drizzle, or fog, or possibly condensed from supercooled water vapour.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:釉面，釉料
Translation: 冰涂料，一般纯净流畅但通常包含一些气泡，这些气泡在通过过冷水的涂层冷冻而成的暴露的对象上形成，而过冷水是通过雨、毛毛雨、雾或可能是由过冷水蒸汽凝结沉淀而成。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3686
English Term: global aspect
Definition: Aspects concerning the whole world considered as being closely connected by modern telecommunications and as being interdependent economically, socially and politically.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 全球观
Translation: 认为整个世界通过现代通讯工具紧密相连，并在经济、社会、政治等方面相互依赖的观念。(来源: CEDa)

Code: 3687
English Term: global convention
Definition: A worldwide assembly of national, political party or organizational delegates, or the pact or the agreement that arises from such an assembly that forms, often, the preliminary to an international treaty.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 全球公约
Translation: 由各国、各政党或各组织代表参加的全球性会议、或由这样的形式会议达成的协定、协议，而通常是初步的国际协定。 (来源: BLD)

Code: 3688
English Term: Global Environment Facility
Definition: An international organization established in 1990 to provide practical assistance to governments in achieving environmental improvements. The GEF is managed by the World Bank, which contributes 2/3 of its funds, the remaining 1/3 being controlled by the United Nations Development Programme.
Chinese Term: 全球环境机构
Translation: 于1990年设立的国际组织，旨在向各国政府提供实现环境改善的实际援助。 GEF由捐助2/3基金的世界银行管理，而剩下的1/3基金乃由联合国开发设计署捐助。
Code: 3690
English Term: global model
Definition: Models concerning different aspects of reality which can be applied at global level.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 全球模式
Translation: 考虑现实的各个方面且能应用到全球层面的模式。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 3692
English Term: global warming
Definition: Changes in the surface-air temperature, referred to as the global temperature, brought about by the greenhouse effect which is induced by emission of greenhouse gases into the air.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:全球变暖
Translation: 由于温室气体的排放所导致的温室效应造成地球表面空气温度的变化。(来源: WRIGHT)

Code: 3694
English Term: glossary
Definition: An alphabetical list of terms concerned with a particular subject, field or area of usage that includes accompanying definitions.&#10;(Source: CED / RHW)
Chinese Term:术语表
Translation: 按字母顺序排列关于某一特定主题、领域和使用范围并包括伴随的定义的专用术语列表。(来源: CED / RHW)

Code: 3695
English Term: glue
Definition: A crude, impure, amber-colored form of commercial gelatin of unknown detailed composition produced by the hydrolysis of animal collagen; gelatinizes in aqueous solutions and dries to form a strong, adhesive layer.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 胶水
Translation:动物胶原质水解形成的一种不知详细组成成分的天然的、不纯的琥珀色的商业明胶；它在水溶液中呈胶体状，干后便形成一种很坚固的黏性层。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3698
English Term: goal of individual economic business
Definition: The aim, purpose, objective, or end for a profit-seeking enterprise engaged in commerce, manufacturing, or a service.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 个体经济业务目标
Translation: 营利性企业从事商业、制造或服务的目标、目的或意图等。(来源: RHW)

Code: 3701
English Term: golf
Definition: A game played on a large open course, the object of which is to hit a ball using clubs, with as few strokes as possible, into each of usually 18 holes.
Chinese Term:高尔夫
Translation: 在大型开放场地所进行的一种比赛，目的是尽可能以最少挥杆次数，用球杆打击球使其进入洞中，通常是18个洞。

Code: 3705
English Term: good management
Definition: The competent, skillful and successful process of planning, leading and working toward the accomplishment or completion of goals, objectives and mission of an organization or institution.&#10;(Source: DAM)
Chinese Term: 良好管理
Translation: 为了贯彻或完成组织或机构的目标，目的与任务而在计划、领导、和工作上做出的适当、技术高明且成功的处理过程。 (来源: DAM)

Code: 10930
English Term: goods
Definition: A term of variable content and meaning. It may include every species of personal chattels or property. Items of merchandise, supplies, raw materials, or finished goods. Land is excluded.&#10;(Source: DICLAW / WESTS)
Chinese Term: 财货
Translation: 一个多意涵的专用术语。 它可能包括每一类型私人的动产或不动产。 如货物、供应品、原料或成品等形式，但不包括土地。(来源: DICLAW / WESTS)

Code: 10931
English Term: goods and services
Definition: The total of economic assets, including both physical or storable objects and intangible acts of human assistance.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 财货与服务
Translation: 总体经济资产，包括实体的或储存的物体及人类协助的无形行为等。 (来源: ODE)

Code: 3715
English Term: government (cabinet)
Definition: A body of top government officials appointed to advise the President or the chief executive officer of a country, usually consisting of the heads of government departments or agencies.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 政府(内阁)
Translation: 委派作为总统或国家行政首长咨询的高阶政府官员主体，一般由政府部门或机关主管所组成。(来源: OED)

Code: 3712
English Term: government advisory body
Definition:
Chinese Term: 政府咨询机构
Translation:

Code: 3714
English Term: government building
Definition: Building for the offices of the main departments of government.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 政府大楼
Translation: 政府主要部门的办公室所在建筑。(来源: HARRIS)

Code: 14588
English Term: government contracting
Definition:
Chinese Term: 政府合同，政府契约
Translation:

Code: 3716
English Term: government environmental expenditure
Definition:
Chinese Term: 政府环境开支
Translation:

Code: 3717
English Term: government liability
Definition: A public body's debt or other legal obligation arising out of transactions in the past which must be liquidated, renewed or refunded at some future date.&#10;(Source: EFP)
Chinese Term: 政府职责，政府公务
Translation: 由以前的交易所衍生，必须在未来清算、延续或偿还的公共团体债务或其他法律责任。(来源: EFP)

Code: 3718
English Term: government policy
Definition: Any course of action adopted and pursued by a ruling political authority or system, which determines the affairs for a nation, state or region.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 政府政策
Translation: 由决策国家、州、或区域事务的执政权责机构或系统，所采用或贯彻的任何行动方针。 (来源: RHW)

Code: 3721
English Term: grain
Definition: Edible, starchy seeds of the grass family (Graminae) usable as food by man and his livestock.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 谷物
Translation: 可食用的草属植物，其种子富含淀粉，可被人和家畜食用。(来源: MGH)

Code: 10612
English Term: graminaceous plant
Definition: A very large family of plants including cereals such as wheat, maize, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 禾本科植物
Translation: 一个很大的植物家族，包括谷物，如小麦，玉米等。(来源: PHC)

Code: 11809
English Term: granulometry
Definition: 1) The determination of the different grain size in a granular material.&#10; 2) The proportion by weight of particles of different sizes in granular material.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 粒径分析
Translation: 1)对粒状物不同颗粒大小的判定。 2) 粒状物中不同大小的粒子的重量比率。(来源: ECHO2)

Code: 3729
English Term: grass
Definition: A very large and widespread family of Monocotyledoneae, with more than 10.000 species, most of which are herbaceous, but a few are woody. The stems are jointed, the long, narrow leaves originating at the nodes. The flowers are inconspicuous, with a much reduced perianth, and are wind-pollinated or cleistogamous. The fruit in single-seeded, usually a caryopsis. Grasses are the most important of all plants for food.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 禾本科，稻科植物
Translation: 一种大而散布广泛的单子叶科植物，有超过10000个品种，大多为草本植物，但有少数是木本的。莖間連接，在結點長出長而窄的葉子，花不顯著，非常小的花被，是風傳花粉或閉花受精，單種果實，通常一個穎果。草是所有植物中最重要的食物來源。茎间连接，在结点处长出长而窄的叶子，花不显著，非常小的花被，是风传花粉或闭花受精，单种果实，通常一个颖果，是所有植物中最重要的食物来源。 (来源: ALL)

Code: 3730
English Term: grass fire
Definition: A conflagration in or destroying large areas of any vegetation in the Gramineae family as found in fields, meadows, savannas or other grasslands.&#10;(Source: ISEP / ALL)
Chinese Term: 草地火灾
Translation: 破坏生长在原野、草地、大草原或其他牧草地等大片面积禾本科植物地区的大火。 (来源: ISEP /ALL)

Code: 3732
English Term: grasshopper
Definition: A plant-eating insect with long back legs that can jump very high and makes a sharp high noise using its back legs or wings.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 蚱蜢
Translation: 一种食草昆虫，具有能跳得非常高的细长后腿，在使用后腿或翅膀时会发出尖锐的高度的噪音。(來源： CAMB) (来源：CAMB)

Code: 3733
English Term: grassland
Definition: Grassland cover nearly one-fifth of the Earth's land surface. They include savannah, the prairies of North America, and the steppes of Russia and Central Asia. Grassland ecosystems support thousands of different species, above and below the ground, and have a vital part to play maintaining the ecological balance of the world.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 草原
Translation: 草原大约覆盖了1,5的地球陆地表面。包括非洲的热带草原，北美大草原，俄罗斯和中亚草原。草原生态系统支援地表上下数以万计不同的生物，对维持地球的生态平衡至关重要。(Source: WRIGHT)


Code: 3734
English Term: grassland ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of the biological communities located in biomes characterized by the dominance of indigenous grasses, grasslike plants and forbs, and their non-living environmental surroundings.&#10;(Source: TOE / DOE)
Chinese Term: 草原生态系统
Translation: 生物群落与周围无机环境互动的系统。该系统坐落在以原生草、草样植物和草本植物为主的地区。(Source: TOE , DOE)

Code: 3738
English Term: gravel
Definition: A mixture of rock fragments and pebbles that is coarser than sand.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 砂砾
Translation: 岩石碎片与比砂还粗大的卵石所组成的混合物。 (来源：CED)

Code: 3739
English Term: gravel extraction
Definition: Obtaining a mixture of coarse sand and small water- worn or pounded stones, (used for paths and roads and as an aggregate) from the earth.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 砂石开采，砂石挖掘
Translation: 从地层中获取粗砂和细小的受水磨蚀或磨碎之石头混合物，通常用作舖设道路的材料。(来源: GILP96a)

Code: 3742
English Term: gravel pit
Definition: A place where gravel is dug out of the ground. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 砂石坑
Translation: 地面上被挖出砂石的地方。(来源: CAMB)

Code: 3748
English Term: grazing
Definition: The vegetation on pastures that is available for livestock to feed upon.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 牧草
Translation: 牧场上可供牲畜食用的植物。(来源: CED)

Code: 3755
English Term: green building
Definition: The self-contained dwelling where man simulates the ways of ecosystems, i.e. his wastes are converted to fuel by anaerobic digestion for methane production and the residues from the digestion are used for growing food. The food residues are composted and/or used for methane production. Solar energy is trapped by the greenhouse effect and used for house, crop and water heating. A windmill would be used for electricity. Thus, given sufficient space, sunshine, rainfall and wind, the ecohouse is in theory a self-contained system recycling its own wastes and using the sun as its energy input.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 绿色建筑
Translation: 人们模仿生态系统所建造的可以自给自足的居住环境，也就是其产生的废弃物可以经由厌氧消化转换为甲烷而作为燃料，而剩余残物则可作为种植肥料。剩余食物可用作堆肥或生产甲烷；太阳能经由温室效应收集后可供给家庭、作物热能或水的加热用；风车则可产生电力。因此，在足够的空间、阳光、雨、和风的条件下，理论上，生态房屋可自成一个独立系统，循环其产生的废弃物并使用太阳为其能源。(来源: PORT)


Code: 3756
English Term: green corridor
Definition: Avenues along which wide-ranging animals can travel, plants can propagate, genetic interchange can occur, populations can move in response to environmental changes and natural disasters, and threatened species can be replenished from other areas.&#10;(Source: WILDLAa)
Chinese Term: 绿色走廊
Translation: 沿着廊道，在此广泛的多种动物可以行走、植物可以繁殖、遗传交换可以发生、物种群数可随著环境改变和自然灾害而迁移、而受威胁物种可从他处获得补充。 (来源: WILDLAa)

Code: 14835
English Term: green fiscal instrument
Definition:
Chinese Term: 绿色财政手段
Translation:

Code: 3766
English Term: green manure
Definition: Herbaceous plant material plowed into the soil while still green.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 绿色肥料
Translation:仍呈绿色时被犁入土壤的草本植物原料。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3768
English Term: green revolution
Definition: The name given to the widespread development of high-yield strains of wheat, corn and rice during the 1960s and early 1970s. It was more formally known as the Indicative World Plan for Agricultural Development. The revolution came after the Food and Agricultural Organization held the World Food Congress in 1963. A "Freedom from Hunger" campaign was set up with the goal of increasing food supplies and solving the world's hunger problems.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term:绿色革命
Translation: 1960年代至1970早期间对于米、谷物、小麦高产能品种的快速发展所给予的名称，它经常被当作是为了农业发展的互动性世界计划，革命一词是在1963年世界食品代表大会中由粮食和农业组织所提出。 以增加食物与解决世界饥饿问题为目的「免于饥饿」的战役亦被建立。(来源: WRIGHT)

Code: 3770
English Term: green space
Definition: A plot of vegetated land separating or surrounding areas of intensive residential or industrial use and devoted to recreation or park uses.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term:绿色空间，绿地
Translation: 被稠密的住宅或工业用地所包围或分隔，作为休闲或公园使用的植物园地。(来源: LANDY)

Code: 12219
English Term: green tide
Definition: A proliferation of a marine green plankton toxic and often fatal to fish, perhaps stimulated by the addition of nutrients.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 绿潮
Translation: 可能是由于营养物质的添加，刺激了海洋绿色浮游生物毒性的大量激增，通常对鱼类具有致命性。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 3771
English Term: green vegetable
Definition: A vegetable having the edible parts rich in chlorophyll and forming an important source of vitamins and micronutrients.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term:绿色蔬菜
Translation: 可食用蔬菜部分,含有丰富的叶绿素，维生素和微量营养素。 (来源: WEBSTE)

Code: 3754
English Term: greenbelt
Definition: 1) An area of land, not necessarily continuous, near to and sometimes surrounding a large built-up area. The area is kept open by permanent and severe restriction on building. &#10;2) An irrigated, landscaped, and regularly maintained fuelbreak, usually put to some additional use, such as a golf course, park, or playground. &#10;3) A planning designation that mandates the setting aside of otherwise developable lands for the purpose of creating natural or semi-natural open spaces. Greenbelts are usually linear parkways, tracts, or belts of land running through or around urban conurbations.&#10; 4) An area or zone of open, semi-rural, low-density land surrounding existing major urban areas, but not necessarily continuous. The zone is to be kept open by permanent and severe restrictions on new development.&#10;(Source: ALL /  DUNSTE /  GOOD)
Chinese Term: 绿带
Translation: (1)接近或围绕大型建设区域的连续或不连续的土地。此地区将永久维持开放，且对于任何建筑皆有严格的限制。2)需浇灌且有造景，且定期加以维护的防火带，通常会有一些附加的用途，如供作高尔夫球场、公园或儿童游戏场。3)经过规划设计，坐落于已开发地区旁的自然或半自然的开放空间。绿带通常是围绕或穿越都市地区的长条状公园大道、大片土地或带状土地。4)围绕现有主要都市地区的开放式、半田园式、低密度开发的地区，不一定是要连续性的。此地区将永久维持开放，且对于新开发有严格的限制。&#10;(来源: ALL /  DUNSTE /  GOOD)

Code: 3760
English Term: greenhouse cultivation
Definition: Cultivation of plants, especially of out-of-season plants, in glass-enclosed, climate-controlled structures.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 温室栽培
Translation: 在用玻璃围成,可控制气候的建筑物內培育植物，特別是培育那些生长期已过的植物。 (来源: MGH)

Code: 3761
English Term: greenhouse effect
Definition: The warming of the Earth's atmosphere caused by the increasing concentration of atmospheric gases, such as water vapour and carbon dioxide. These gases absorb radiation emitted by the Earth, thus slowing down the loss of radiant energy from the Earth back to space.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 温室效应
Translation: 因大气中的气体，如水气和二氧化碳浓度的增加，而造成地球大气温度的上升。这些气体会吸收地球释出的辐射，减缓辐射能释回太空。(来源: DUNSTE)

Code: 3763
English Term: greenhouse gas
Definition: A collective expression for those components of the atmosphere that influence the greenhouse effect, namely carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxides, ozone, CFCs and water vapour.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 温室气体
Translation: 大气组成中影响温室效应的集合表示，即二氧化碳、甲烷、氧化亚氮、臭氧、氟氯碳化物和水蒸气。(来源: GILP96)

Code: 14926
English Term: gridding
Definition: A system of uniformly spaced perpendicular lines and horizontal lines running north and south, and east and west on a map, chart, or aerial photograph; used in locating points.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 网格定位
Translation: 地图、表格和航空摄影上使用间距相等的南北向垂直线和东西向水平线所组成的系统，用来确定定点位置。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3774
English Term: grinding
Definition: To reduce to powder or small fragments. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 研磨
Translation: （把物质）磨成粉末或小碎片。 (来源: LEE)

Code: 11050
English Term: gross domestic product
Definition: The total output of goods and services produced by a national economy in a given period, usually a year, valued at market prices. It is gross, since no allowance is made, for the value of replacement capital goods.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 国内生产毛收入
Translation: 在一定时期，通常是一年内由国民经济生产，根据市场价格评价的货物和服务的总输出。指未考虑替代资本货物价值的总额。 (来源: GOOD)

Code: 370.77
English Term: gross national product
Definition: Gross domestic product adjusted for foreign transactions, i.e. to the figure for Gross Domestic Product must be added any income accruing to residents of the country arising from investment and other factor earnings abroad and from it must be deducted any income earned in the domestic market by factors owned by foreigners abroad.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 国民生产毛收入
Translation: 调整外贸后的国内生产毛额，亦即国内生产毛额计算时,须增加国民在国外投资或其他生产要素收益所带来的任何收入，及须扣除外国人拥有生产要素而在国内市场获得的任何收入。 (来源: GOOD)

Code: 3780
English Term: groundwater
Definition: Water that occupies pores and crevices in rock and soil, below the surface and above a layer of impermeable material. It is free to move gravitationally, either downwards towards the impermeable layer or by following a gradient.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term:地下水
Translation: 存于岩石或土壤孔隙与裂缝中的水，位于地表下方与不透水层的上方，可以随重力往下朝不透水层或沿著水利坡降而自由移动。

Code: 2704
English Term: groundwater endangering
Definition: Threat to the quality and quantity of groundwater by activities related to the use of land. As some activities (e.g. landfill) present a particular risk of pollution, the closer an activity is to a well or borehole, the greater the risk of the pumped water being polluted. The type of soil, the geology, the rainfall and the amount of water pumped out of the ground must all be taken into consideration.&#10;(Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 地下水损害危机
Translation: 由于土地使用的相关活动造成地下水之质与量的威胁。某些活动(如掩埋场)有其特定的污染风险，任何活动与井或凿孔的距离愈近，其抽出水质遭受污染的风险愈高。凡土壤的型态、地质、降雨量、和井水的抽出量，都应纳入考虑。(来源: PORTa)

Code: 3781
English Term: groundwater extraction
Definition: The process, deliberate or inadvertent, of extracting ground water from a source at a rate so in excess of the replenishment that the ground water level declines persistently, threatening exhaustion of the supply or at least a decline of pumping levels to uneconomic depths.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 地下水提取
Translation: 精心策划或随意自地下水源以超过地下水补充的速率汲取水的过程，会造成地下水位持续的下降，使得水源有枯竭的危险，或至少使水位下降至不符合经济效益的抽取位置。(来源: BJGEO)

Code: 3784
English Term: groundwater pollution
Definition: Contamination of any water found under the earth's surface by any leaching pollutants, such as inorganic compounds (chlorides, nitrates, heavy metals, etc.), synthetic organic chemicals (pesticides, fertilizers, etc.) and pathogens (bacteria, parasites, etc.).
Chinese Term:地下水污染
Translation: 地表下任何水体受到污染物，如无机化合物（氯化物、硝酸盐、重金属等)、合成有机化学物质（农药、肥料等）及病原体（细菌、寄生虫等）等渗漏的污染。

Code: 3785
English Term: groundwater protection
Definition: Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken to prevent or reduce harm to the environmental integrity of fresh water found beneath the earth's surface, usually in aquifers, which supply wells and springs.&#10;(Source: RHW / TOE)
Chinese Term:地下水保护
Translation: 为避免和减少对地下水体环境整体性的损害，所采取的预防措施、程序或安装的装置，而这些地下水体通常位于含水层，是井水和泉水的来源。(来源: RHW / TOE)

Code: 13106
English Term: groundwater quality
Definition: Groundwater accounts for over 95% of the earth's useable fresh-water resources; over half the world's population depends on groundwater for drinking-water supplies. This invisible resource is vulnerable to pollution and over-exploitation. Effective conservation of groundwater supplies requires the integration of land-use and water management.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 地下水水质
Translation: 地下水占地球可用淡水资源的95％；超过半数的地球人口依靠地下水作为饮用水源。这种看不见的资源容易受到污染和过度开采，为有效节约地下水资源，必须整合土地使用和水资源管理。(来源: GILP96)

Code: 3788
English Term: group behaviour
Definition: An observable pattern of activity displayed by persons in and as an aggregate.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 群体行为
Translation: 一个群体内的多人或一整个群体所展现出来的行为模式。 (来源: RHW)

Code: 3800
English Term: gulf
Definition: An inlet of the sea of large areal proportions, more indented than a bay and generally more enclosed.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term:海湾
Translation: 海上面积比例较大的小湾， 比海湾更为弯曲且通常较为封闭。 (来源： WHIT)

Code: 3805
English Term: gymnosperm
Definition: Any seed-bearing plant of the division Gymnospermae, in which the ovules are borne naked on the surface of the mega sporophylls, which are often arranged in cones.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 裸子植物
Translation: 任何会结种子的部分裸子植物，其胚珠裸露在许多毬果内排列的孢子叶的表面。 (来源: CED)

Code: 3806
English Term: gypsum
Definition: A colourless or white mineral used in the building industry and in the manufacture of cement, rubber, paper and plaster of Paris.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 石膏
Translation: 建筑业及水泥、橡胶、纸张和熟石膏的生产工业,常用的一种无色或白色的矿物质。 (来源: CED)"

Code: 3808
English Term: habitat
Definition: 1) The locality in which a plant or animal naturally grows or lives. It can be either the geographical area over which it extends, or the particular station in which a specimen is found.&#10; 2) A physical portion of the environment that is inhabited by an organism or population of organisms. A habitat is characterized by a relative uniformity of the physical environment and fairly close interaction of all the biological species involved. In terms of region, a habitat may comprise a desert, a tropical forest, a prairie field, the Arctic Tundra or the Arctic Ocean.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT /  GILP)
Chinese Term: 栖息地
Translation: 1）植物或动物自然生长或生活的地方。它可以是可伸展的地理区域，或是样本发现的具体地方。2）一种生物或一个生物群落栖息的自然地域。具有相对均一的环境和所有生物品系的近距离作用。就地区而言，它可以包括沙漠、热带森林、大草原、北极冻原或北冰洋。(来源: WRIGHT , GILP)

Code: 14851
English Term: habitat destruction
Definition: Destruction of wildlife habitats by increasing pressure for land by fast-growing human populations, pollution and over-exploitation. Whole species or populations of plants and animals have disappeared causing a loss of genetic resource that is not only regrettable from an aesthetic or philosophical point of view but also threatens man's food supply. Habitat loss takes several forms: outright loss of areas used by wild species; degradation, for example, from vegetation removal and erosion, which deprive native species of food, shelter, and breeding areas; and fragmentation, when native species are squeezed onto small patches of undisturbed land surrounded by areas cleared for agriculture and other purposes.&#10;(Source: WPR /  WRES)
Chinese Term: 栖息地破坏
Translation: 由于人口的快速成长对土地需求的增加、以及污染和过度的开发，造成野生动物栖地的破坏。动、植物之物种或族群的全面消失使得基因源丧失，其不仅在哲学和美学的层面会留下遗憾，且威胁人类的食物来源。栖地的消失有几种型式：如，野生物种栖地的澈底消失；植被移除或腐蚀导致土质恶化，影响原生物种的食物、栖地、养育地；或因为农业或其他用地的使用，使原生物种被迫迁移至未受干扰但被其他用途所围绕的小块土地时，其活动区域遭到分割。(来源: WPR / WRES)


Code: 3810
English Term: haematology
Definition: The branch of medical science concerned with diseases of the blood.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 血液学，血液病学
Translation: 和血液疾病相关的医学科学的分支。

Code: 3812
English Term: hail
Definition: Precipitation in the form of balls or irregular lumps of ice, always produced by convective clouds, nearly always cumulonimbus.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 冰雹
Translation: 以球状或不规则冰块形态呈现的降水，都由对流云层所产生，几乎都是积雨云。 (来源：MGH)

Code: 3815
English Term: half-life
Definition: The time required for one-half the atoms of a given amount of radioactive material to undergo radioactive decay.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 半衰期
Translation: 定量的辐射性物质，其原子之数量经由辐射衰退为原来的一半所需的时间。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 3817
English Term: haloform
Definition: A haloalkane, containing three halogen atoms, e.g. iodoform, CHI3; a haloform reaction is a reaction to produce haloforms from a ketone. For example, if propanone is treated with bleaching powder, the chlorinated ketone so formed reacts to form chloroform.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 卤仿
Translation: 一种分子中含三个卤素原子的卤烷烃物质,如碘仿CHI3(三碘甲烷)；卤仿反应是从酮中产生卤仿的反应。例如，让丙酮与漂白粉反应，被氯化了的酮便会发生化学反应生成氯仿。 (来源: UVAROV)

Code: 3819
English Term: halogenated biphenyl
Definition: Halogen derivatives of biphenyl.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 卤化联苯
Translation:联苯的卤化衍生物。(来源: MGH)

Code: 11718
English Term: halogenated compound
Definition: A substance containing halogen atoms.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 卤化物
Translation: 含有卤素原子的物质。(来源: MGHa)

Code: 3820
English Term: halogenated hydrocarbon
Definition: One of a group of halogen derivatives of organic hydrogen and carbon containing compounds; the group includes monohalogen compounds (alkyl or aryl halides) and polyhalogen compounds that contain the same or different halogen atoms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 卤化碳氢化合物
Translation: 含有卤素的有机碳氢化合物的衍生物，此类化合物包含单一卤素化合物(烷基或芳香族化合物)和含有相同或不同卤素的多卤素化合物。(来源: MGHa)

Code: 3821
English Term: halogenated phenol
Definition: Halogen derivatives of phenol. (Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 卤化酚
Translation: 酚的卤化衍生物。(来源: MGHa)

Code: 3822
English Term: halogenated pollutant
Definition: An organic compound bonded with one of the five halogen elements (astatine, bromine, chlorine, fluorine, and iodine). Several of these compounds contribute to reductions in the concentration of ozone in the stratosphere.&#10;(Source: OER / ERG)
Chinese Term: 卤化污染物
Translation: 与五种卤素元素（砈、溴、氯、氟、碘）中的任何一种元素键结的有机化合物。许多此类化合物会减少平流层中臭氧的浓度。(来源: OER / ERG)

Code: 3823
English Term: halogenated terphenyl
Definition:
Chinese Term: 卤化三联苯
Translation:

Code: 3830
English Term: handicraft
Definition: A particular skill performed with the hands. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 手工艺，手工艺品
Translation:  用手完成的特殊工艺（技巧）。(来源: CED)

Code: 3828
English Term: handicraft business
Definition: The profession, commercial firm or trade involving the production and distribution of articles that are made through the skilled use of one's hands.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 手工艺业
Translation: 从事手工商品的生产和销售的行业或贸易公司，这种商品主要是靠具有手工技艺的人员制作出来的。 (来源: RHW)

Code: 3834
English Term: harbour
Definition: Area of water next to the coast, often surrounded by thick walls, where ships and boats can be sheltered.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 海港
Translation: 临海岸的水域，通常有厚墙围绕，可提供船只的掩蔽。(来源: CAMB)

Code: 3837
English Term: hardness
Definition: Resistance of a solid to indentation, scratching, abrasion or cutting.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 硬度
Translation: 固体抵抗变形、刮、摩擦、或切割的阻力。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3838
English Term: hard-to-dispose-of waste
Definition: Discarded material, often hazardous or in large volume, for which there is no obvious disposal route.&#10;(Source: DHW)
Chinese Term: 难处理废弃物
Translation: 通常由于有毒或具有较大体积，而没有明显的处置途径的废弃物质。(来源: DHW)

Code: 3847
English Term: harmonisation of law
Definition: The process by which two or more states, sometimes under the auspices of an interstate or international organization, change their legislation relevant to some area of common concern to conform their statutes and to facilitate compliance and enforcement across borders.&#10;(Source: GT2)
Chinese Term: 法律协调
Translation: 两个以上国家（州），有时在国际性或跨州组织的协助下，改变其有关某些共同关切地区的立法，以适合其法规并使不同区域内的承诺与执行更加容易的过程。 (来源: GT2)

Code: 3849
English Term: harvest
Definition: The amount or measure of the crop gathered in a season. (Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 收成
Translation: 在一定季节被采集的农作物的数量或量度。(来源: AMHER)

Code: 3852
English Term: hazard
Definition: A physical or chemical agent capable of causing harm to persons, property, animals, plants or other natural resources.&#10;(Source: FFD / HMD)
Chinese Term: 危险物
Translation: 一种能够对个人、财产、动物、植物、或其他自然资源造成危害的物理性或化学性介质。(来源: FFD / HMD)

Code: 12783
English Term: hazard area
Definition: Any site or region in which there is a physical or chemical agent capable of causing harm to property, persons, animals, plants or other natural resources.&#10;(Source: FFD / HMD)
Chinese Term: 危险区域
Translation: 任何含有某种能够导致财产、人员、动物、植物或其他天然资源受到伤害的物理或化学介质的地点或地区。(来源: FFD / HMD)

Code: 3853
English Term: hazard of pollutants
Definition: Risk or danger to human health, property or the environment posed by the introduction of a harmful substances into the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: RHW / TOE)
Chinese Term: 污染物危害
Translation: 有害物质引入生态系统后，对人体健康、财产或环境所造成的危害与风险。(来源: RHW / TOE)

Code: 1968
English Term: hazardous chemical export
Definition: Transporting substances capable of producing adverse health effects, fires or explosions to other countries or areas for the conduct of foreign trade.&#10;(Source: TOE / MGHME)
Chinese Term: 有害（危险）化学品出口
Translation: 利用外贸手段将对健康有负面作用、易燃或易爆的物质运送到其他国家和地区。 (来源: TOE /MGHME)

Code: 3854
English Term: hazardous substance
Definition: Any material that poses a threat to human health and/or the environment. Typical hazardous substances are toxic, corrosive, ignitable, explosive, or chemically reactive.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 有害（危险）物质
Translation: 指能对人类健康或环境产生威胁的物质，典型的有害物质通常是有毒、具腐蚀性、易燃、易爆炸或具化学反应性的物品。(来源: LEE)

Code: 3855
English Term: hazardous substances legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the production, use or clean-up of materials that pose a threat to human health and the environment, particularly materials that are toxic, corrosive, ignitable, explosive or chemically reactive.&#10;(Source: TOE / BLD)
Chinese Term: 有害物质立法
Translation: 政府为管制对人体健康及环境具有威胁物质的生产、使用或清除,所规定必须遵守的规则或法体，特别是指具有毒性、腐蚀性、可燃性、爆炸性或化学反应性的物质。 (来源: TOE/BLD)"

Code: 3858
English Term: hazardous waste
Definition: Any waste or combination of wastes with the potential to damage human health, living organisms or the environment. Hazardous wastes usually require special handling and disposal procedures which are regulated by national and international laws.&#10;(Source: HMD / DEE /  HMH)
Chinese Term: 有害废弃物
Translation: 对人类健康、生物体或环境具有潜在危害作用的任何废弃物或废弃物的混合。有害废弃物通常需要特殊的处理与处置程序，而这些程序由国家或国际性法律所管制。(来源: HMD / DEE / HMH)

Code: 3857
English Term: hazardous waste dump
Definition: Disposal facilities where hazardous waste is placed in or on land. Properly designed and operated landfills are lined to prevent leakage and contain systems to collect potentially contaminated surface water run-off.&#10;(Source: PARCOR /  WPR)
Chinese Term:有害废弃物弃置场
Translation: 地面或地下的有害废弃物处置场所。经由适当设计和操作的掩埋场，其底部舖设防水布以防止泄漏，并设置污水收集系统以防止有可能被污染的地表水溢流。(来源: PARCOR /  WPR)

Code: 3859
English Term: hazardous working material
Definition: A poison, corrosive agent, flammable substance, explosive, radioactive chemical, or any other material which can endanger human health or well-being if handled improperly.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 有害作业物质
Translation: 一种有毒的、有腐蚀性的介质、易燃物、易爆物、放射性化学品或其他任何若处理不当则可危及人类健康或福祉的物质。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3860
English Term: haze
Definition: Reduced visibility in the air as a result of condensed water vapour, dust, etc., in the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 烟雾，霾
Translation: 由于大气中凝结水蒸气与灰尘等而降低空气中可见度的物质。 (来源：CED)

Code: 3864
English Term: headland (farm)
Definition: A strip of land left at the end of a furrow in a field in order to facilitate the turning of the plough.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 枕地（农场方面）
Translation: 位于犁田末端的一块条状地，其用途是为了方便犁耕时的迴转。(来源: WHIT)

Code: 10144
English Term: headland (geography)
Definition: A cape or promontory jutting seawards from a coastline, usually with a significant sea cliff.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 岬角（地理学方面）
Translation: 从岸边往海的方向伸出的海岬，通常有明显的海岸峭壁。 (来源： WHIT)

Code: 3865
English Term: health
Definition: A state of dynamic equilibrium between an organism and its environment in which all functions of mind and body are normal.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 健康、卫生
Translation: 生物个体与所处环境间的动态平衡状态，在此状态中身心功能皆处于正常状态。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3866
English Term: health care
Definition:
Chinese Term: 卫生保健、医疗保健
Translation:

Code: 13319
English Term: health care profession
Definition:
Chinese Term: 医疗保健专业
Translation:

Code: 10017
English Term: health effect of noise
Definition: Noise consequences on human health consist in loss of hearing and psychological effects.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 噪音对的健康影响
Translation: 导致人类听力损失与心理影响的噪音影响。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 3871
English Term: health facility
Definition: A facility or location where medical, dental, surgical, or nursing attention or treatment is provided to humans or animals.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 医疗设施
Translation: 提供人类或动物的医药、牙科治疗、手术、或护理照护或治疗的场所或设施。

Code: 3872
English Term: health hazard
Definition:
Chinese Term: 健康危害
Translation:

Code: 3874
English Term: health legislation
Definition: Laws, ordinances, or Codes prescribing sanitary, clean air, etc., standards and regulations, designed to promote and preserve the health of the community and working conditions of businesses.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 健康立法
Translation: 设计规格和规章,用来促进和保护社区和企业工作环境健康的法律、法令、公共卫生法、空气污染法等。(来源: BLACK)

Code: 3877
English Term: health protection
Definition:
Chinese Term:健康保护
Translation:

Code: 3878
English Term: health regulation
Definition: A body of rules or orders prescribed by government or management to promote or protect the soundness of human bodies and minds in the workplace, at home or in the general environment.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term:健康法规
Translation: 由政府或管理部门,为促进或保护在工作场所、家庭或一般环境中人体或心智的健全,所规定的法规或命令。 (来源: BLD / RHW)

Code: 3881
English Term: health service
Definition: The supply of health care to the public. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:健康服务、医疗服务
Translation:为大众提供健康护理服务。(来源: CEDa)

Code: 12379
English Term: health-care activities waste
Definition:
Chinese Term:医疗保健活动垃圾
Translation:

Code: 3869
English Term: health-environment relationship
Definition: Relationship between the quality of the environment and the health conditions of individuals.&#10;(Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term:健康与环境的关系
Translation: 环境品质与个人健康状况之间的关系。(来源: DIZAMB)

Code: 3880
English Term: health-related biotechnology
Definition:Health-related biotechnologies are concerned with large-molecule protein pharmaceuticals, genetic engineering, etc.&#10;(Source: BIOTAZ /  DELFINa)
Chinese Term: 健康相关生物技术
Translation: 研究大分子蛋白质药品、基因工程等健康相关的生化技术。(来源: BIOTAZ /  DELFINa)

Code: 3887
English Term: hearing (sense)
Definition: The general perceptual behaviour and the specific responses made in relation to sound stimuli.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:听觉（感官）
Translation: 对相应的声音刺激所产生的一般认知行为和特定反应。 (来源： MGH)

Code: 11879
English Term: hearing acuity
Definition: Effectiveness of hearing. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 听觉灵敏度，听力
Translation:听觉的有效性。(来源: CAMB)

Code: 3884
English Term: hearing impairment
Definition: A decrease in strength or any abnormality or partial or complete loss of hearing or of the function of ear, or hearing system, due directly or secondarily to pathology or injury; it may be either temporary or permanent.
Chinese Term: 听觉障碍
Translation: 由于直接或间接受到病原或伤害，而产生短暂性或永久性的耳朵功能或听觉系统的听力下降、听力异常、部分或完全的听力丧失。

Code: 3885
English Term: hearing procedure
Definition: Any prescribed course or mode of action governing the preliminary examination by a magistrate of basic evidence and charges to determine whether criminal proceedings, a trial or other judicial actions are justified.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 聆讯（听审）过程
Translation: 由地方法官执掌初步审问基本证据和指控，以确定是否有罪的过程。任何诉讼所规定的过程或模式，是为审问或其他司法行动辩护。 (来源: RHW)

Code: 3886
English Term: hearing protection
Definition: The total of measures and devices implemented to preserve persons from harm to the faculty of perceiving sound.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:听觉保护、听力保健
Translation: 为了使个人接受声音的机能免于伤害而采用的方法与设备的总称。(来源: OED)

Code: 11835
English Term: hearing system
Definition: The system that is concerned with the perception of sound, is mediated through the organ of Corti of the ear in mammals or through corresponding sensory receptors of the lagena in lower vertebrates, is normally sensitive in man to sound vibrations between 16 and 27.000 cycles per second but most receptive to those between 2.000 and 5.000 cycles per second, is conducted centrally by the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve, and is coordinated especially in the medial geniculate body.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 听觉系统
Translation: 与声音的认知有关，经由哺乳动物耳朵内的耳蜗接受器(Corti器官)或低等脊椎动物的瓶状知觉接收器传导的系统。正常情况下人可以感知到16-27000周每秒的音频，而对2000-5000周每秒之间的感知较为敏锐。听觉系统是由听觉神经中的耳蜗分支为中心主导，且由脑神经室的中央膝状体来专门协调。(来源: WEBSTE)

Code: 3890
English Term: heat (physics)
Definition: A form of energy that is transferred by a difference in temperature: it is equal to the total kinetic energy of the atoms or molecules of a system.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:热（物理）
Translation: 能量的一种形式，其经由温度的不同而传送，它等同于一系统的原子或分子的总动能。(来源: CED)

Code: 3891
English Term: heat and power station
Definition: Power station which produces both electricity and hot water for the local population. A CHP (Combined Heat and Power Station) plant may operate on almost any fuel, including refuse.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 汽电共生厂
Translation: 为当地居民供应电力和热水的能量站。一个（结合热和电能）的电厂可使用任何形式的能源而运转，包括垃圾。(来源: PHC)

Code: 3904
English Term: heat pump
Definition: A device which transfers heat from a cooler reservoir to a hotter one, expending mechanical energy in the process, especially when the main purpose is to heat the hot reservoir rather than refrigerate the cold one.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 热泵
Translation: 一种由温度较低的储槽将热量传送到温度较高的热源的装置，在传递过程中消耗机械能，特别是在主要目的是升温而非降温时消耗的机械能更多。 (来源: MGH)

Code: 3906
English Term: heat storage
Definition: Keeping heat created during a period of low consumption until a peak period when it is needed.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term:热储存
Translation: 在需热较少的时期贮存产生的热量，以备在需热高峰期使用。 (来源: PHC)

Code: 3907
English Term: heat supply
Definition: The provision of heating fuel, coal or other heating source materials, or the amount of heating capacity, for the use of a municipality, or other heat user.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:热供应、供热
Translation: 用于全市居民或其他热能使用者的加热燃料、煤或其他加热资源的供应，或加热的最大能量。(来源: ISEP)

Code: 3892
English Term: heater
Definition: An apparatus that heats or provides heat.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:供热器
Translation: 一种加热或提供热量的装置、设备。(来源: AMHER)

Code: 3893
English Term: heathland
Definition: An area with poor acid soil, typically dominated by ling (Calluna) or heaths (Erica).&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 荒野
Translation: 贫瘠的酸性土壤地区，通常蔓生着石南植物(欧石楠或彩萼石楠)。 (来源： ALL)

Code: 3894
English Term: heating
Definition: A system for supplying heat, especially central heating, to a building.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term:供热系统
Translation: 为建筑物提供热能的系统，特别是中央供热系统。(来源: HARRIS)

Code: 3900
English Term: heating plant
Definition: Plant for producing and supplying heat.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 供热工厂
Translation: 产生和供应热能的工厂。(来源: CEDa)

Code: 3911
English Term: heavy goods vehicle traffic
Definition: Traffic of large motor vehicles designed to carry heavy loads. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:重装载车辆运输
Translation: 设计用来运载重物的大型机动车辆的运输。 (来源: CEDa)

Code: 3915
English Term: heavy metal
Definition: A metal whose specific gravity is approximately 5.0 or higher.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 重金属
Translation: 比重接近或高于5.0的金属。 (来源: MGH)

Code: 3914
English Term: heavy metal load
Definition: The amount of stress put on an ecosystem by heavy metal pollution released into it.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 重金属负荷
Translation: 重金属污染排放到生态系统，对生态系统所造成的压力负荷。(来源: ISEP)

Code: 3917
English Term: hedge
Definition: A line of closely planted bushes or shrubs, marking the boundaries of a field. The type of hedge varies between parts of the country, and its age can be dated from the number of species of tree and shrub present. Over the last thirty years hedge-row removal has had a marked visual effect on lowland agricultural landscapes. From the farmer's point of view, in areas of predominant arable or intensively managed grazing, there is little or no economic justification for retaining hedges.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 树篱
Translation: 在周界种植一排紧密的灌木或矮树丛之场地。树篱的类型因地区不同而异，而其使用时间也可由现有树木及灌木之种类数量加以推算。过去的三十年中，树篱被整列移除对低地的农业景观里有明显影响，因为从农民的观点而言，在主要的耕地和密集的牧草地，并无特别的理由需要维持树篱的存在。(来源: GOOD)

Code: 3933
English Term: herbicide
Definition: A chemical that controls or destroys undesirable plants.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 除草剂
Translation: 用来控制或破坏不想要的植物的化学物质。(来源: LANDY)

Code: 3935
English Term: herbivore
Definition: An animal that feeds on grass and other plants.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 草食动物
Translation: 以青草或其他植物为食物的动物。 (来源： CED)

Code: 3937
English Term: heterocyclic compound
Definition: Compound in which the ring structure is a combination of more than one kind of atom.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 杂环化合物
Translation: 环状结构中含有一种以上不同原子的化合物。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3949
English Term: high mountain
Definition:
Chinese Term:高山
Translation:

Code: 3953
English Term: high protein food
Definition:
Chinese Term:高蛋白食物
Translation:

Code: 3958
English Term: high tide water
Definition: The level of water when the tide is at its highest level. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 高潮水位
Translation: 潮汐达到其最高程度时的水位。 (来源： CED)

Code: 3960
English Term: high voltage line
Definition: An electric line with a voltage on the order of thousands of volts.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 高压电线
Translation: 电压达到数千伏特的电线。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3945
English Term: higher education
Definition: Study beyond secondary school at an institution that offers programs terminating in undergraduate and graduate degrees.&#10;(Source: COE)
Chinese Term: 高等教育
Translation: 中学以后的教育，这类教育机构提供学士与研究所（硕士、博士）学位课程。(来源: COE)

Code: 3947
English Term: highland ecosystem
Definition: The interacting systems of the biological communities and their non-living surroundings in regions of relatively high elevation, typically characterized by decreased air pressure and temperature, reduced oxygen availability and increased isolation.&#10;(Source: TOE / APD)
Chinese Term: 高地生态系统
Translation: 位于具有相对高海拔及大气压力与温度降低，氧气可用率减少，以及隔绝性增加等典型特征的地区中，生物群体与其非居住环境之间相互影响的系统。(来源: TOE / APD)

Code: 3954
English Term: high-rise building
Definition: Any tall, multistoried structure or edifice that is equipped with elevators.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 高层建筑
Translation: 配有电梯的高耸、多层的建筑物或大厦。(来源: RHW)

Code: 3955
English Term: high-speed railway
Definition: The term "high-speed traffic" encompasses all trains running at speeds over 200 km/h but also trains running at 200 km/h if the terrain, population density or economic reasons do not justify higher speeds.&#10;(Source: EJRCF)
Chinese Term: 高速铁路
Translation: “高速运输”这个术语包含了所有时速在200公里以上的列车，但也包括某些因地域限制、人口密度或经济理由而不允许较高车速时，其时速维持在200公里的列车。(来源: EJRCF)

Code: 3956
English Term: high-speed train
Definition: Trains travelling at maximum speeds of 300kmh on special high-speed rail lines.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:高速火车
Translation: 行驶于特殊高速轨道上且最高时速可达300kmh的火车。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 3963
English Term: highway
Definition: A public road especially an important road that joins cities or towns together.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:公路
Translation: 供公众使用的道路，特别是指连接城市或乡镇之间的道路。(来源: CAMB)

Code: 13568
English Term: hiking trail
Definition: A trail in the country along which one can walk, usually for pleasure or exercise.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:人行小径
Translation: 乡间提供行走的路径，通常用来做休闲或运动。(来源: CEDa)

Code: 3966
English Term: hill
Definition:A natural elevation of the land surface, rising rather prominently above the surrounding land, usually of limited extent and having a well-defined outline, rounded rather than peaked or rugged, with no specific definition of absolute elevation.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 山，山丘
Translation: 地表上自然高起之处，较周围陆地显著的隆起，常具有有限的范围与轮廓清楚的外形，圆形而较不尖锐或崎岖不平的顶端，没有特别定义的绝对高度。(来源: BJGEO)


Code: 10066
English Term: historic centre
Definition: hat part of a town or city in which the principal public and historic buildings are located.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 历史中心
Translation: 城镇中主要的公共和历史建筑的所在地。(来源: GOOD)

Code: 3971
English Term: historical evolution
Definition: The process by which small but cumulative changes in the learned, nonrandom, systematic behavior and knowledge of a people occur from generation to generation.&#10;(Source: ANT)
Chinese Term: 历史变迁
Translation: 一代接一代，不断发生的某种过程，即个人在学习上的、非随机的、系统性的行为和知识方面产生微小但不断累积的过程。(来源: ANT)

Code: 3974
English Term: historical monument
Definition: Monument built in memory of an historical event. &#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 历史纪念碑
Translation:  为纪念历史事件而设立的纪念碑。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 3975
English Term: historical research
Definition: The study of events in relation to their development over time.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 历史研究
Translation: 对事件随时间变迁而发展的关系的研究。(来源: GOOD)

Code: 3977
English Term: historical site
Definition:Place where significant historical events occurred and which is important to an indigenous culture or a community.&#10;(Source: LANDYa)
Chinese Term: 历史遗址
Translation: 重要历史事件发生的所在地，对当地的文化或社会相当重要。(来源: LANDYa)

Code: 3983
English Term: history
Definition: A systematic written account comprising a chronological record of events (as affecting a city, state, nation, institution, science, or art) and usually including a philosophical explanation of the cause and origin of such events.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 历史
Translation: 有系统的书面记录，包含按时间顺序记录的事件（对城市、州、国家、机构、科学、艺术的影响），内容通常包括对这些事件起因的客观说明。(来源: WEBSTE)

Code: 3986
English Term: holiday
Definition: 1) A period in which a break is taken from work or studies for rest, travel or recreation&#10;2) A day on which work is suspended by law or custom, such as a religious festival, holiday, etc.
Chinese Term:假期
Translation: 1) 从工作或学习中停下来休息，旅游或娱乐的一段时间。 2)根据法律或习俗暂停工作一天，比如某个宗教节日，或者休假日等。

Code: 3984
English Term: holiday camp
Definition: A place providing accommodation, recreational facilities, etc. for holiday-makers.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 假日野营地、度假村
Translation: 提供度假游客住宿、娱乐设施等的地点。(来源: CED)


Code: 13122
English Term: home garden
Definition: A plot of cultivated ground adjacent to a dwelling and usually devoted in whole or in part to the growing of herbs, fruits, flowers, or vegetables for household use.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 宅园
Translation: 临近住宅的一块有栽种植物的土地，通常其全部或部分地区用于种植供家用的草本植物、水果、花卉或蔬菜。(来源: WEBSTE)

Code: 14864
English Term: homepage
Definition: The preset document that is displayed after starting a World Wide Web browser, or the main World Wide Web document in a series of related documents.&#10;(Source: UNM / WIC)
Chinese Term:主页
Translation: 开启万维网（WWW）浏览器后的第一个页面，或是WWW上一系列相关文档的主要页面。(来源: UNM / WIC)

Code: 11618
English Term: homologation
Definition: The approval given by the judge of certain acts and agreements for the purpose of rendering them more binding and executory.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 审批
Translation: 为成为更具法律约束力及可实行性的目的，赞同法官的某项法案和协定判定。(来源: WESTS)

Code: 3995
English Term: horse
Definition: A large animal with four legs which people ride on or use for carrying things or pulling vehicles.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:马
Translation:一种四条腿的大型动物，人们可以骑乘其上或用其来搬运东西、拉车等。(来源: CAMB)

Code: 3998
English Term: horticulture
Definition: The art and science of growing plants.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 园艺（学）
Translation: 种植植物的技巧和科学。(来源: MGH)

Code: 3999
English Term: hospital
Definition: A place where people who are ill or injured are treated and taken care of by doctors and nurses.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:医院
Translation:一个有医生和护士治疗，照顾生病或受伤病人的地方。(来源: CAMB)

Code: 4002
English Term: hospital waste
Definition: olid waste, both biological and non-biological, produced by hospitals and discarded and not intended for further use.&#10;(Source: SHG)
Chinese Term: 医疗垃圾
Translation: 由医院产生并丢弃不再使用的生物及非生物性固体废弃物。(来源: SHG)

Code: 4009
English Term: hot water
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:热水
Translation:（不需要定义）

Code: 4008
English Term: hotel industry
Definition:The industry related with the provision of lodging and usually meals and other services for travelers and other paying guests.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:旅馆业
Translation: 旅游者或其它付费顾客提供住处、膳食或其它服务的行业。(来源: AMHER)

Code: 4015
English Term: household
Definition: A group of persons sharing a home or living space, who aggregate and share their incomes, as evidenced by the fact that they regularly take meals together.&#10;(Source: SOCIOL)
Chinese Term: 家庭
Translation: 分享一个家或居住空间的一群人，他们聚集并分享收入，具体的证据是他们规律性的一起用餐。(来源: SOCIOL)

Code: 4016
English Term: household chemical
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 家用化学品
Translation: （不需要定义）

Code: 11038
English Term: household expenditure
Definition: Any spending done by a person living alone or by a group of people living together in shared accommodation and with common domestic expenses.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 家庭开支
Translation: 任何由个人单独生活所用花销，或一起居住共同承担住宿和一般的家用花费的一群人的一切开支。(来源: ODE)

Code: 4018
English Term: household goods
Definition: Goods needed for living in a household.
Chinese Term: 家用商品
Translation: 家常生活中所需要的商品

Code: 4022
English Term: housing
Definition: 1) Dwelling-houses collectively and the provision of these.&#10; 2) Shelter, lodging.
Chinese Term: 住所；避难所
Translation: 1)共同居住的房子和他们的供应品 2)避难所、寄宿地。

Code: 4027
English Term: housing density
Definition: The number of dwelling units or the residential population of a given geographic area.&#10;(Source: MIB)
Chinese Term: 住宅稠密度
Translation: 一定地理区域住宅单位的数量或人口总数。 (来源: MIB)

Code: 4029
English Term: housing finance
Definition:
Chinese Term: 住宅信贷
Translation:

Code: 4030
English Term: housing improvement
Definition: n addition, renovation or repair to a place of residence that increases its aesthetic, functional or financial value.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:住宅装修
Translation: 附加、更新或修补居住地,以增加美观、功能或财政价值。 (来源: RHW)

Code: 4032
English Term: housing legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the buying, selling, leasing, construction or maintenance of dwelling places.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 住宅立法
Translation: 政府为管制住所的买、卖、租赁、建造或维修,所规定必须遵守的规则或法体。 (来源: BLD)

Code: 4034
English Term: housing need
Definition:
Chinese Term:住宅需求
Translation:

Code: 4037
English Term: housing programme
Definition: A planned system of projects, services or activities intended to support individuals or families in need of shelter, including transitional or permanent housing and safe havens for low-income, elderly or homeless populations.&#10;(Source: HUD)
Chinese Term: 居住供给方案
Translation: 专案、服务和活动的计划性系统，目的是向有庇护需要的个人或家庭提供支援，包括低收入家庭、老年人和无家可归人员提供临时的和永久的住房以及安全的庇护所。(来源: HUD)

Code: 4039
English Term: housing quality standard
Definition: A norm or measure applicable in legal cases and considered to reflect a relatively high grade or level of excellence in the construction, maintenance, operation, occupancy, use or appearance of dwelling units.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 住宅质量标准
Translation: 适用于合法案件的准则或标准,和考虑使住所单位在建造、维修、运作、居住、使用或外观上,反映出较高等级或优秀水平。 (来源: BLD)

Code: 4045
English Term: human biology
Definition: The study of human life and character.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:人类生物学
Translation:对人类生活和特征的研究。(来源: ZINZAN)

Code: 10018
English Term: human body
Definition: The entire physical structure of an human being.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:人体
Translation:人类身体的整个物理结构。(来源: CED)

Code: 4046
English Term: human disease
Definition: An interruption, cessation or disorder of human bodily functions, systems or organs resulting from genetic or developmental errors, infection, nutritional deficiency, toxicity, illness or unfavorable environmental factors.&#10;(Source: SMD / ISEP)
Chinese Term:人类疾病
Translation: 由于遗传或发展误差、感染、营养不足、毒性、生病或不适宜的环境因素所造成的人体机能、系统或组织的障碍、停止或不正常。(来源: SMD / ISEP)

Code: 4047
English Term: human ecology
Definition: The study of the growth, distribution, and organization of human communities relative to their interrelationships with other humans and other species and with their environment.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:人类生态学
Translation: 研究人类群体的成长、分布和组织，与其他人类、其他种群、周围环境之间的相互关係。(来源: UNUN)

Code: 4049
English Term: human exposure to pollutants
Definition:
Chinese Term: 人类对污染物的暴露量
Translation:

Code: 13120
English Term: human habitat
Definition: Any of the conditions in which people live. Also all human settlements in villages, towns or major cities, which require environmental management to provide water, public spaces, remove public wastes, etc.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 人类居住地
Translation: 任何人类居住的环境。包括所有供人们居住的乡村、城镇或主要城市，而这些地方都需要做好环境管理以提供水、公共空间和移除公共垃圾等。(来源: WRIGHT)

Code: 4051
English Term: human health
Definition: The avoidance of disease and injury and the promotion of normalcy through efficient use of the environment, a properly functioning society, and an inner sense of well-being.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:人体健康
Translation: 通过有效率的环境利用、适当的社会机制与内在的安宁意识，来避免疾病与伤害并促进身体机能的正常。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 5236
English Term: human migration
Definition: The permanent or semipermanent change of a person's place of residence.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:人类移民
Translation: 个人居住场所永久或暂时性的改变。(来源: GOOD)

Code: 4054
English Term: human pathology
Definition: Branch of medicine concerned with the cause, origin, and nature of disease, including the changes occurring as a result of disease.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 人体病理学
Translation: 医学的分支，研究疾病的病因、病源和性质，包括疾病导致的变化。(来源: CED)

Code: 4055
English Term: human physiology
Definition: A branch of biological sciences that studies the functions of organs and tissues in human beings.&#10;(Source: OMD / WOR)
Chinese Term: 人体生理学
Translation: 生物学的分支，研究人体内器官与组织的功能。(来源: OMD / WOR)

Code: 4056
English Term: human population
Definition: Group of individuals having common characteristics.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:人类种群
Translation:具有共同特征的个人组成的群体

Code: 4060
English Term: human rights
Definition: The rights of individuals to liberty, justice, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:人权
Translation:个人所拥有的自由、司法等权利

Code: 10019
English Term: human science
Definition: Group of sciences including sociology, anthropology, psychology, pedagogy, etc. as opposed to the humanistic group.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:人文科学
Translation:包括社会学、人类学、心理学、教育学等的一组科学，与人文主义是相反的。

Code: 4062
English Term: human settlement
Definition: Cities, towns, villages, and other concentrations of human populations which inhabit a given segment or area of the environment. Human settlements are associated with numerous and complex environmental, pollution, and living condition problems for planning and management.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term:人类聚集地
Translation: 城市、乡镇、村庄、和其他人口集中的地区。它关联到许多不同且复杂的环境、污染和生活条件等问题，必须加以规划和管理。

Code: 4065
English Term: human settlement management
Definition:
Chinese Term:人类居住管理
Translation:

Code: 13303
English Term: humanitarian aid
Definition: The support or relief given to save human lives or to alleviate suffering, including public health efforts and the provision of financial resources and food, often when governmental authorities are unable or unwilling to provide for such assistance.&#10;(Source: RHW / DPG)
Chinese Term: 人道援助
Translation: 拯救人命或舒解痛苦的援助或救助，包含公共卫生﹐财政资源与食物的供应，其时机通常为政府当权者无法或不愿提供这类救助之时。 ( 来源: RHW , DPG )

Code: 4052
English Term: human-made disaster
Definition: Violent, sudden and destructive change in the environment caused by man.&#10;(Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term:人为灾难
Translation:由人类导致环境剧烈、突然和毁灭性的环境改变。(来源: ISEP /  RHW)

Code: 4070
English Term: humus
Definition: The more or less decomposed organic matter in the soil. Besides being the source of most of the mineral salts needed by plants, humus improves the texture of the soil and holds water, so reducing the loss of nutrients by leaching.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 腐殖质
Translation: 在土壤中或多或少不同程度分解的有机物质。除了可作为植物所需的主要矿物盐类来源，腐植土亦可改善土壤的组织和保住水，进而降低营养物因渗滤作用的流失。(来源: ALL)

Code: 4072
English Term: hunting
Definition: The pursuit and killing or capture of wild animals, regarded as a sport.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 狩猎
Translation: 对野外动物进行追捕与捕杀或者俘获，被认为是一种运动。(来源: CED)

Code: 11502
English Term: hunting licence
Definition: Official permission granted to individuals or commercial enterprises allowing and regulating by time, location, species, size or amount the wild animals or game that can be killed and taken from lands within a particular jurisdiction.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 狩猎证
Translation: 核发给个人或商务企业的官方许可﹐该许可容许并规定﹐在某些特殊司法管辖权下的土地上﹐可宰杀及捕获野生动物的时间、地点、种类、大小或数量。(根源: RHW)

Code: 4073
English Term: hunting reserve
Definition: Area of land where the pursuit and killing or capture of game and wild animals is permitted.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 狩猎保留区
Translation: 允许追踪、射杀或捕捉野生动物的地区。(来源: CED)

Code: 4077
English Term: hurricane
Definition: A tropical cyclone of great intensity; any wind reaching a speed of more than 73 miles per hour (117 kilometers per hour) is said to have hurricane force.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 飓风
Translation: 强烈的热带气旋；风速超过每小时73英哩(每小时117公里)时，即被称为具有颶风威力。 (来源： MGH)

Code: 4080
English Term: hybridisation
Definition: The act or process of producing hybrids that is an animal or plant resulting from a cross between genetically unlike individuals. Hybrids between different species are usually sterile.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 混种，杂交
Translation: 产生植物或动物混种的行为或过程，由不同遗传基因的个体杂交而产生。不同品种间的杂交产物往往是无法生育的。(Source: MGH)

Code: 4082
English Term: hydraulic construction
Definition: Any structure built to route the flow of water, or to support the weight and pressure of a body of water.&#10;(Source: ENC / LIV)
Chinese Term: 水工结构物、水利建筑
Translation: 任何用来引导水流或支撑水体重量和压力的建筑结构。(来源: ENC / LIV)

Code: 4084
English Term: hydraulic engineering
Definition: A branch of civil engineering concerned with the design, erection, and construction of sewage disposal plants, waterworks, dams, water-operated power plants and such.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水利工程学
Translation: 土木工程学的分支，研究污水处理厂、自来水厂、大坝、水力发电厂等的设计、建立和建造。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4085
English Term: hydraulics
Definition: The branch of science and technology concerned with the mechanics of fluids, especially liquids.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水利学
Translation: 科学与技术的分支，研究流体动力学，特别是水力。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4088
English Term: hydrobiology
Definition: Study of organisms living in water. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 水生生物学
Translation: 水生生物体的相关研究。(来源: ZINZAN)

Code: 4091
English Term: hydrocarbon
Definition: A very large group of chemical compounds composed only of carbon and hydrogen.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 碳氢化合物
Translation: 仅含有碳和氢元素的化学化合物。(来源: MGH)

Code: 12485
English Term: hydrocarbon storage tank
Definition: A container or a reservoir for the storage of hydrocarbons.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 碳氢化合物储存罐
Translation: 储存碳氢化合物的容器或储存槽。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4094
English Term: hydrochloric acid
Definition: A solution of hydrogen chloride gas in water; a poisonous, pungent liquid forming a constant-boiling mixture at 20% concentration in water; widely used as a reagent, in organic synthesis, in acidizing oil wells, ore reduction, food processing, and metal cleaning and pickling. Also known as muriatic acid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 盐酸
Translation: 水中含氯化氢气体的溶液，具有毒性和刺激性气味，当其在水中的浓度达20%时可形成持续起泡(沸腾)的混合物。广泛被使用于溶剂、有机合成、油井酸洗、矿物还原、食物加工、和金属清洗。也称为氯化酸。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4095
English Term: hydroculture
Definition: Growing plants without soil but in sand or vermiculite or other granular material, using a liquid solution of nutrients to feed them.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 溶液培养、水生栽培
Translation: 使植物在沙、蛭石或其它细小颗粒物等非土壤环境中生长，用液体营养液为其提供养分。(来源: PHC)

Code: 11967
English Term: hydroelectric energy
Definition: The free renewable source of energy provided by falling water that drives the turbines. Hydropower is the most important of the regenerable energy sources because of its highest efficiency at the energy conversion. There are two types of hydroelectric power plants: a) run-of-river power plants for the use of affluent water; b) storage power plants (power stations with reservoir) where the influx can be regulated with the help of a reservoir. Mostly greater differences in altitudes are being used, like mountain creeks. Power stations with reservoirs are generally marked by barrages with earth fill dam or concrete dams. Though hydropower generally can be called environmentally acceptable, there exist also some problems: a) change of groundwater level and fill up of the river bed with rubble. b) Risk of dam breaks. c) Great demand for land space for the reservoir. d) Diminution, but partly also increase of value of recreation areas. As the hydropowers of the world are limited, the world energy demand however is rising, finally the share of hydropower will decrease.&#10;(Source: PORT /  PHC /  PZ)
Chinese Term: 水力发电能源
Translation: 由流下的水推动涡轮机产生能量。因水力的高能量转换率，故成为最重要的再生能源。有两种型式的水力电厂：a)利用丰沛的河水发电的电厂；b)储存式电厂(水库电厂)，进流水水量可经由水库的调节控制。大部分是利用高度差，如高山溪流。水库电厂通常是有土壤或水泥建造的水坝。虽然水力发电的环境相容性高，但仍有一些问题：a)改变地下水水位，并将河岸填充碎石；b)水坝溃决的危险；c)对土地空间的需求大；d)缩小但也部分增加了休閒地区。世上的水力发电有限，但世上对能源的需求却不断上升，造成水力发电的分配量将会降低。(来源: PORT /  PHC /  PZ)

Code: 4098
English Term: hydroelectric power plant
Definition: Power station which operates with the free renewable source of energy provided by falling water.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 水力发电厂
Translation: 使用落下的水力所产生的免费可再生能源进行发电的电厂。(来源: PORT)

Code: 4103
English Term: hydrogen
Definition: A flammable colourless gas that is the lightest and most abundant element in the universe. It occurs mainly in water and in most organic compounds and is used in the production of ammonia and other chemicals, in the hydrogenation of fats and oils, and in welding.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 氢
Translation: 易燃、无色的气体，且是最轻和宇宙中含量最丰富的元素，它主要存在于水和大部分的有机化合物中，且被使用于制造氨和其他化学物质、油和脂的氢化，和焊接中。(来源: CED)

Code: 4107
English Term: hydrogen sulphide
Definition: Flammable, poisonous gas with characteristic odour of rotten eggs, perceptible in air in a dilution of 0.002 mg/l. It is used as a reagent in chemical analysis; extremely hazardous; collapse, coma and death from respiratory failure may come within a few seconds after one or two inspirations; low concentrations produce irritation of conjunctiva and mucous membranes. Headache, dizziness, nausea, lassitude may appear after exposure.&#10;(Source: MGH /  INDMER)
Chinese Term: 硫化氢
Translation: 易燃、有毒的气体，味道似腐臭的蛋，在空气中的浓度0.002 mg/L即可察觉。是化学分析中的试剂、危害性极高、在数秒内吸入一到二口硫化氢后可能产生呼吸衰竭、休克、和死亡；低浓度会造成结膜和黏液的刺激。若暴露其下可能会感到头痛、晕眩、恶心和厌倦。(来源: MGH /  INDMER)

Code: 4108
English Term: hydrogeology
Definition: The science dealing with the occurrence of surface and ground water, its utilization, and its functions in modifying the earth, primarily by erosion and deposition.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水文地质学
Translation: 一门科学用以研究地表与地下水的形成、利用、和改变土地的功能（主要是藉由冲蚀和沉积）。(来源: MGH)

Code: 12145
English Term: hydrographic basin
Definition: 1) The drainage basin of a stream. &#10;2) An area occupied by a lake and its drainage basin.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水文流域
Translation: 1) 溪流的流域。 2)湖泊与其流域所涵盖的地区。 (来源： BJGEO)

Code: 12135
English Term: hydrographic network
Definition: The configuration or arrangement in plan view of the natural stream courses in an area. It is related to local geologic and geomorphologic features and history. Synonym: drainage pattern.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水系、水道网
Translation: 某一区域自然河流路线的平面配置或排列。这与当地的地质和地貌特征及历史有关。同义词: drainage pattern。（来源：BJGEO）

Code: 4109
English Term: hydrography
Definition: Science which deals with the measurement and description of the physical features of the oceans, lakes, rivers, and their adjoining coastal areas, with particular reference to their control and utilization.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水道学
Translation: 量测并描述海洋、湖泊、河流及其沿岸地区的物理性特征徵，特别是对它们的控制和利用的科学。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4115
English Term: hydrologic balance
Definition: An accounting of the inflow to, outflow from, and storage in a hydrologic unit such as a drainage basin, aquifer, soil zone, lake or reservoir; the relationship between evaporation, precipitation, runoff, and the change in water storage.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水文平衡
Translation: 计算流域、含水层、土层、湖泊或水库这类水文系统中的流入量、流出量以及储水量；包括蒸发、降水、迳流以及储水量变化之间的关系。（来源：BJGEO）

Code: 4116
English Term: hydrologic cycle
Definition: The movement of water between the oceans, ground surface and atmosphere by evaporation, precipitation and the activity of living organisms, as one of the mayor biogeochemical cycles. Each day water evaporates from the oceans and is carried in the air from the sea over the land, which receives it as precipitation, and finally returns from the land to the sea through rivers, thus completing the cycle.&#10;(Source: ALLa)
Chinese Term: 水文循环
Translation: 通过蒸发、降水以及生物活动使海洋、地表和大气中的水分转移，这是主要的生物地化循环之一。每天水分从海上蒸发进入空气，飘至陆地上空降落为雨，最终通过江河再汇回海洋，就这样完成一个循环。 (来源: ALLa)

Code: 4111
English Term: hydrologic disaster
Definition: Violent, sudden and destructive change either in the quality of the earth's water or in the distribution or movement of water on land, below the surface or in the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  APD)
Chinese Term: 水文灾害
Translation: 地球上水流品质，或地面上、地表下、大气中的水流移动或分配的剧烈、突然与毁灭性的变化。(来源: ISEP /  APD)

Code: 9172
English Term: hydrologic flow
Definition: The characteristic behaviour and the total quantity of water involved in a drainage basin, determined by measuring such quantities as rainfall, surface and subsurface storage and flow, and evapotranspiration.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水文流量
Translation: 通过测量降水量、地表和地下水库储水量，流量和蒸发量来确定流域盆地中总水量及其特征。（来源：BJGEO）

Code: 4118
English Term: hydrology
Definition: The science that treats the occurrence, circulation, distribution, and properties of the waters of the earth, and their reaction with the environment.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水文学
Translation: 研究地球上水的产生、循环、分布、性质，及其与环境反应的科学。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4119
English Term: hydrolysis
Definition: 1) Decomposition or alteration of a chemical substance by water. &#10;2) In aqueous solutions of electrolytes, the reactions of cations with water to produce a weak base or of anions to produce a weak acid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水解
Translation: (1)化学物质被水所分解和改变。2)在电解质的水溶液中，阳离子与水反应生成弱硷，或阴离子与水反应生成弱酸。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4120
English Term: hydrometeorology
Definition: That part of meteorology of direct concern to hydrologic problems, particularly to flood control, hydroelectric power, irrigation, and similar fields of engineering and water resource.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 水文气象学
Translation: 气象学中直接有关水文问题的部分，尤其是洪水控制、水力发电、灌溉、以及工程和水资源相关的领域。(来源: ZINZAN)

Code: 12128
English Term: hydrometry
Definition: The science and technology of measuring specific gravities, particularly of liquids.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 液体比重测量法
Translation: 测量比重的科学和技术，尤其是液体。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4124
English Term: hydrosphere
Definition: The waters of the Earth, as distinguished from the rocks (lithosphere), living things (biosphere), and the air (atmosphere). Includes the waters of the ocean; rivers, lakes, and other bodies of surface water in liquid form on the continents; snow, ice, and glaciers; and liquid water, ice, and water vapour in both the unsaturated and saturated zones below the land surface. Included by some, but excluded by others, is water in the atmosphere , which includes water vapour, clouds, and all forms of precipitation while still in the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水圈
Translation: 地球上的水域，与岩石(岩石圈)，生物(生物圈)与空气(大气)有所区别。包括海洋、河川、湖泊水域及其他在陆地上以液体形态存在的表面水体；雪，冰，冰河；还有在地表下的未饱和与饱和区域内的液态水、冰与水蒸气。 有时还包括大气中的水分，如水蒸气，云与仍在大气层中的所有型态的降水。 (来源： BJGEO)

Code: 4126
English Term: hygiene
Definition: The science that deals with the principles and practices of good health.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 卫生学、保健学
Translation: 有关良好健康的原理与实践科学。 (来源: MGH)

Code: 4127
English Term: hymenopteran
Definition: Insects including bees, wasps, ants, and sawflies, having two pair of membranous wings and an ovipositor specialized for stinging, sawing or piercing.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 膜翅目昆虫
Translation: 包括蜜蜂、黄蜂、蚂蚁和锯蝇，有两对膜翅和一个特别用来叮、锯、或刺的产卵器。(来源: CED)

Code: 14865
English Term: hypertext
Definition: The organization of information units typically containing visible links that users can select or click with a mouse pointer or some other computer device to automatically retrieve or display other documents.&#10;(Source: WIC / TWI)
Chinese Term: 超文本
Translation: 资讯单元组织，包含可见的连结，用户可以用鼠标指针或其他电脑设备来选择或点击连结，进而回到原文件或打开其他文件。(来源: WIC / TWI)

Code: 4131
English Term: ice
Definition: The dense substance formed by the freezing of water to the solid state; it commonly occurs in the form of hexagonal crystals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 冰
Translation: 由水结冻成为固态而形成的高密度物质； 一般以六角形冰晶的形式出现。 (来源： MGH)

Code: 4133
English Term: ice pack
Definition: Large areas of floating ice, usually occurring in polar seas, consisting of separate pieces that have become massed together.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 浮冰群
Translation: 通常发生在两极海域的大片区域浮冰，由分散碎冰聚集在一起而形成。 (来源： CED)

Code: 4132
English Term: iceberg
Definition: A large mass of detached land ice floating in the sea or stranded in shallow water.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 冰山
Translation: 飘浮在海上或搁浅在浅水中，不与陆地连结的巨大冰层。 (来源： MGH)

Code: 4136
English Term: identification of pollutants
Definition: The determination of the specific substance or substances that are causing pollution.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 污染物鉴定
Translation: 确定特定物质或引起污染的物质。(来源: RHW)

Code: 4137
English Term: ideology
Definition: A body of ideas that reflects the beliefs and interest of a nation, political system, etc. and underlies political action.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 意识形态
Translation: 反应一个国家、政治系统等的信仰和利益的思想主体。(来源: CED)

Code: 14911
English Term: image classification
Definition: Processing techniques which apply quantitative methods to the values in a digital yield or remotely sensed scene to group pixels with similar digital number values into feature classes or categories.&#10;(Source: DYNAMO)
Chinese Term: 图像（影像）分类
Translation: 在遥感技术中的资料以过滤与其他程序，透过控制像素，产生能突显特征或视觉解释的影像。(来源: DYNAMO)

Code: 14908
English Term: image enhancement
Definition: In remote sensing, the filtering of data and other processes to manipulate pixels to produce an image that accentuates features of interest or visual interpretation.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 图像增强、影像强化
Translation: 在遥感技术中的资料过滤与其他程序，其目的是通过控制像素，产生能突显特征或视觉解释的影像。(来源: DUNSTE)

Code: 14907
English Term: image filtering
Definition: A remote sensing term related to image enhancement that refers to the removal of a spatial component of electromagnetic radiation.&#10;(Source: WHITa)
Chinese Term:图像（影像）过滤
Translation: 与影像强化相关的遥感术语，指移除电磁辐射的空间成份。(来源: WHITa)

Code: 4140
English Term: image processing
Definition: The process of converting 'raw' remotely sensed data into a usable form through the application of various transformations such as supervised and unsupervised classification schemes.&#10;(Source: FORUMT)
Chinese Term:图像处理
Translation: 通过各种转换程序，将原始的遥感资料转化为有用的形式的过程，例如经过监督性与非监督性的分类方法。(来源: FORUMT)

Code: 14903
English Term: image processing digital system
Definition: A coordinated assemblage of computer devices designed to capture and manipulate pictures stored as data in discrete, quantized units or digits.&#10;(Source: GIS)
Chinese Term: 图像处理数字系统
Translation: 一个电脑设备的整合系统，该系统被用来获得与处理图片，储存成离散化、量子化或数位化的单元或形式。(来源: GIS)

Code: 14910
English Term: image registration
Definition: The process of linking map coordinates to control points with known earth-surface coordinates. Related term: coordinate systems.&#10;(Source: FORUMT)
Chinese Term: 图像配准、影像重合
Translation: 连结地图系统过程，连接控制点与已知地表坐标的过程。(来源: FORUMT)

Code: 4141
English Term: IMCO Code
Definition: Codes published by Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation (IMCO) relating to international shipping, particularly regarding safety and marine pollution.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term:政府间海事咨询组织( IMCO)规范
Translation: 由政府间海事咨询机构（IMCO）颁布的尤其是关于安全和海洋污染方面的国际海运规范。(来源: BRACK)

Code: 4146
English Term: immission
Definition: The reception of material, such as pollutants, by the environment and from any source.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 排入
Translation:  污染物和来自任何污染来源的物质被环境所承受。(来源: ALL)

Code: 4147
English Term: immission control
Definition: Legislative and administrative procedures aimed at reducing the damage caused by emissions. Pollution control programmes are normally based on human-oriented acceptable dose limits. A very important measure concerns the organisation of an emission inventory.&#10;(Source: GOODa)
Chinese Term: 排入控制、排入管制
Translation: 降低污染物排放损害的立法与管理程序。污染控制计划通常是基于人体可接受的剂量限度。是一种涉及到排放清单的非常重要的措施
Code: 4148
English Term: immission control law
Definition:
Chinese Term: 排入管制法
Translation:

Code: 4149
English Term: immission damage
Definition: Damage caused by pollution from a distinct source of emission.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 排入损害
Translation: 由不同排放源的污染所造成的危害。(来源: GILP96)

Code: 4150
English Term: immission forecast
Definition: The prediction of immissions is calculated on the basis of the pollutant load, the source height, the wind speed and the dispersion coefficient.&#10;(Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 排入预测
Translation: 排放预测的计算基于污染物负荷、污染源高度、风速以及扩散系数。(来源: FLGISA)

Code: 4151
English Term: immission limit
Definition: Maximum levels of selected pollutants which would lead to unacceptable air quality.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 排入限度
Translation: 会导致无法接受的空气品质发生时的最大污染物排放量。(来源: PORT)

Code: 4152
English Term: immission load
Definition: The total amount of immissions introduced in a given environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 排入负荷
Translation: 输入给固定环境的污染物注入总量。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4154
English Term: immune system
Definition: A body system that helps an organism to resist disease, through the activities of specialised blood cells or antibodies produced by them in response to natural exposure or inoculation.&#10;(Source: KOREN /  CED)
Chinese Term: 免疫系统
Translation: 协助生物体抵制疾病的身体系统。自然感染或接种后产生的特殊的血球细胞或抗体的活动可以发挥此作用。(来源: KOREN , CED)

Code: 4155
English Term: immunity
Definition: The ability of an organism to resist disease or toxins by natural or artificial means.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 免疫力
Translation: 生物体用自然或人为方法抵抗疾病或毒性物质的能力 。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 4156
English Term: immunoassay
Definition: Any of several methods for the quantitative determination of chemical substances such as hormones, drugs, and certain proteins that utilize the highly specific binding between an antigen and an antibody.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 免疫分析法
Translation: 下列任何一种以定量方式来确定化学物质的方法，如荷尔蒙、药剂和某些携带抗原和抗体间及特定连接的蛋白质。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 4157
English Term: immunological disease
Definition: The disruption of the complex system of interacting cells, cell products and cell-forming tissues that protects the body from pathogens, destroys infected and malignant cells and removes cellular debris.&#10;(Source: SMD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 免疫疾病
Translation: 相互作用的细胞、细胞产物与细胞形成组织间所构成的复杂系统的破坏。这复杂系统保护身体免于病原体影响，破坏受感染的恶性细胞并移除细胞残骸。(来源: SMD / RHW)


Code: 4158
English Term: immunology
Definition: A branch of biological science concerned with the native or acquired resistance of higher animal forms and humans to infection with microorganisms.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 免疫学
Translation: 生物学的分支，研究较高等动物和人类其先天的或后天所获得的抵抗微生物感染的能力。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4159
English Term: impact assessment
Definition: Evaluation of the effect of a project upon the environment. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 影响（冲击）评估
Translation: 项目对环境影响的评估。(来源: PHC)

Code: 4160
English Term: impact minimisation
Definition: Actions, procedures or installations undertaken to reduce the extent or degree of negative effects on human health and the ecosystem introduced by human design or interaction with the environment.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 影响（冲击）最小化
Translation: 为降低因为人为影响及与环境交互作用所致的人类健康及生态体系的负面影响所采取的行动、手段或装置。(来源: OED)

Code: 4162
English Term: impact prevention
Definition: Precautionary measures, actions or installations implemented to avert negative effects on the environment.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 影响（冲击）预防
Translation: 避免对于环境的负面影响所实施的预防措施、行动或所安装的设备。(来源: TOE)

Code: 7185
English Term: impact reversal
Definition: The counteracting or undoing of negative effects or influences on the environment.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 影响（冲击）消除
Translation: 抵消或消除对环境的负面影响。

Code: 4163
English Term: impact source
Definition: Elements of an action which cause damage to the surrounding environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 影响（冲击）源
Translation: 导致周围环境破坏的行为元素。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4161
English Term: impactor
Definition: Instrument which samples atmospheric suspensoids by impaction; such instruments consist of a housing which constrains the air flow past a sensitized sampling plate.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 撞击仪、冲击器
Translation: 通过压紧作用在大气气溶胶中取样的仪器，该仪器带有限制气流通过激活取样盘的机罩。

Code: 4164
English Term: implementation law
Definition:
Chinese Term:执行法
Translation:

Code: 4167
English Term: import
Definition: The act of bringing goods and merchandise into a country from a foreign country.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 进口
Translation: 将商品和货物从外国带入本国的行为。（来源：WESTS）

Code: 4169
English Term: import licence
Definition: Permission from a government to bring within its borders and sell a product manufactured in a foreign country.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 进口许可
Translation: 将国外制造的产品带入国境内贩卖所需的政府许可。 (来源: BLD)

Code: 4171
English Term: impoverishment
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 贫穷、贫困
Translation:

Code: 4172
English Term: impregnating agent
Definition: A material used to fill holes in wood, plaster, or other surfaces before applying a coating such as paint or varnish.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 渗透剂
Translation: 在对木材、石膏或其他物质表面涂漆前,应注满它们表面的孔隙，注入时所用的制剂被称为渗透剂。 (来源: MGH)

Code: 4173
English Term: impregnation (materials)
Definition: The forcing of a liquid substance into the spaces of a porous solid in order to change its properties, as the impregnation of wood with creosote to preserve its integrity against water damage.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 渗透原料
Translation: 对液体施压使其通过多孔固体的孔隙，从而改变固体的某些性能，如用木榴油浸渍过的木材可以免受水的侵蚀而保持自身的完整性。 (来源: MGHa)

Code: 4176
English Term: improvement of efficiency
Definition: The beneficial development or progress in the volume of output that is achieved in terms of productivity and input, or in getting the maximum possible output from given or allocated resources.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 效率改善
Translation: 以生产力及输入资源为指标的有利的发展和进步的产出量，或从既定的配给资源中求得最大的可能输出。 (来源: ODE)

Code: 4178
English Term: impulsive noise
Definition: Noise characterized by transient short-duration disturbances distributed essentially uniformly over the useful passband of a transmission system.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 冲击性噪音
Translation: 经由传达系统所产生的一致性且持续时间短的噪音。 (来源: MGH)

Code: 4359
English Term: in situ
Definition: In the natural or normal place.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 原位
Translation:在自然或平常的地方。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 4480
English Term: in vitro assay
Definition: Assay taking place in an artificial environment.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 试管试验
Translation: 在人为环境下进行的测定与化验。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 4481
English Term: in vivo assay
Definition: Experiments that are carried out in the living organism.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 活体试验
Translation: 在活的有机体中进行的试验。(来源: UVAROV)

Code: 8098
English Term: incentive fund
Definition: Money or financial resources set aside to stimulate, encourage, or incite action towards greater productivity.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 奖励基金
Translation: 拨出作为刺激、鼓励或激励朝向提高生产力的货币或金融资源。 (来源: RHW)

Code: 11048
English Term: incentive tax
Definition:
Chinese Term: 奖励税
Translation:

Code: 11638
English Term: incidental pollution
Definition: Pollution caused by oil spills, by the accidental release of radioactive substances, by the immission in water bodies or in the atmosphere of chemical substances deriving from industrial activities.&#10;(Source: DIFIDa)
Chinese Term: （意外）事故污染
Translation: 因石油泄漏、放射性物质的意外释放、工业活动导致化学物质排入水体或大气中等所造成的污染。(来源: DIFIDa)

Code: 4182
English Term: incineration
Definition: Controlled process by which solid, liquid, or gaseous combustible wastes are burned and changed into gases; residue produced contains little or no combustible material.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 焚化、燃烧
Translation: 燃烧固态、液态或气态可燃性废弃物使其转化成气体的控制程序。焚化后的残渣含有极少或没有可燃性成分。(来源: LANDY)

Code: 4183
English Term: incineration of waste
Definition: The controlled burning of solid, liquid, or gaseous combustible wastes to produce gases and solid residues containing little or no combustible material in order to reduce the bulk of the original waste materials.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 垃圾焚化
Translation: 为减少原废弃物质的体积，对固态、液态或气态等可燃废弃物的燃烧控制，以产生含较少或不含可燃物质的固态或气态残渣。(来源: ISEP)

Code: 12431
English Term: incineration residue
Definition: Any material, solid or semisolid, left after processing in a device designed to reduce waste volume by combustion.&#10;(Source: DEE / HMD)
Chinese Term: 焚化残渣
Translation: 经设计用来减少废弃物体积的燃烧装置，处理后剩餘的任何固体或半固体物质。(来源: DEE / HMD)

Code: 4184
English Term: incinerator
Definition: Device which burns waste.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 焚化炉
Translation: 燃烧垃圾的设备。(来源: PHC)

Code: 4187
English Term: income
Definition: The gain derived from capital, from labour or effort, or both combined, including profit or gain through sale or conversion of capital.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 收入、所得
Translation: 自资本、劳动或努力或两者组合所取得的获利，包括利润或销售获利或资本转化获利等。(来源: WESTS)

Code: 13252
English Term: income tax
Definition: A tax on the annual profits arising from property, business pursuits, professions, trades or offices.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 所得税
Translation: 对来自财产、商业从事、职业、贸易或营业的年利润所征收的一种税。(来源: BLACK)

Code: 4189
English Term: incorporation
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 团体、公司
Translation: 无需定义

Code: 8886
English Term: indefinite legal concept
Definition: A condition or extent of time in a government enforced contract, instrument or agreement that lacks precision, distinguishing characteristics or fixed boundaries.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 不确定法律概念
Translation: 政府强制执行缺乏精确度、可区别特征或固定边界的契约、手段或协定的一种状态或时间范围。 (来源: BLD)

Code: 4194
English Term: indemnity
Definition: Financial compensation, reimbursement or security for damages or loss offered by a government, insurance policy or contractual agreement under specified conditions and for specific casualties.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 赔款、赔偿金
Translation: 政府、保险政策或契约协议针对特定条件与特定伤亡人员的损害或损失﹐所提供的金融赔偿、偿还或担保。 (根源: BLD)

Code: 11124
English Term: index
Definition: A list of record surrogates arranged in order of some attribute expressible in machine-orderable form.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 索引
Translation: 记录的代用品，按照机器顺序形式表达的属性排列。(来源: MGH)

Code: 14886
English Term: indexing of documentation
Definition: A service which creates a special contents list, containing titles, authors, abstracts, subject headings and other information, to describe a large number of publications and to be used in searchable, machine-readable (or printed) look-up tables.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 建立文档索引
Translation: 提供一种在可搜索，机读（或打印）的平台中对公共出版物按照特殊的目录列表进行查寻的服务。这些特殊的目录列表包括标题，作者，摘要，主题及其它方面的信息。(来源: RHW)

Code: 4195
English Term: Indian Ocean
Definition: A body of water between the continents of Africa, Antarctica, Asia and Australia including the Bay of Bengal in the east and the Arabian Sea (with the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden and the Persian Gulf) in the west, and containing several islands and island chains, such as the Andaman, Nicobar and Seychelles.&#10;(Source: INP)
Chinese Term: 印度洋
Translation: 在非洲，南极洲，亚洲与澳洲大陆之间的水域，包括东边的孟加拉湾与西边的阿拉伯海(含红海，亚丁湾与波斯湾)，包含一些岛屿与群岛，如安达曼群岛，尼古巴群岛与塞席尔群岛。 (来源： INP)

Code: 4196
English Term: indicator
Definition: Something that provides an indication especially of trends.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 指标
Translation: 可提供说明的事物，特别是针对趋势。(来源: CED)

Code: 4200
English Term: indicator of environmental management
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境管理指标
Translation:

Code: 4202
English Term: indicator of environmental quality
Definition: Qualitative or quantitative parameter used as a measure of an environmental condition, e.g. of air or water quality.&#10;(Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term: 环境品质指标
Translation: 评估环境状况的定性定量参数，如评量空气品质或水质。(来源: DIZAMB)

Code: 4204
English Term: indigenous forest
Definition: Forests which are native to a given area.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 原始森林
Translation: 在特定区域内的天然的原始森林。 (来源： LANDY)

Code: 14845
English Term: indigenous knowledge
Definition: Local knowledge that is unique to a given culture or society, which is the basis for local-level decision making in agriculture, health care, education and other matters of concern in rural communities.&#10;(Source: WIK)
Chinese Term: 本土知识、土著文化
Translation: 某特定文化或社会所特有的地区化知识，它是地方决策阶层在进行农业、卫生、教育和其他受关注事件的地方性决策的基础。(来源: WIK)

Code: 4205
English Term: indigenous technology
Definition: Technologies employed by the native inhabitants of a country and which constitute an important part of its cultural heritage and should therefore be protected against exploitation by industrialized countries; the problem of indigenous knowledge has been discussed during the Rio Conference but it does not receive much protection under the Biodiversity Convention. Article 8 mandates that parties "respect, preserve and maintain knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities embodying traditional life styles... and promote their wider application with the approval and involvement of holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices and encourage the equitable sharing of benefits arising from them".&#10;(Source: RRDA /  WRES)
Chinese Term: 原住民科技，本土科技
Translation: 一个国家原住民所使用的科技，是其文化传统的重要组成部分，因此应该加以保护，使其免受工业化的影响。原住民知识的问题在里约大会中已有讨论，但在生物多元化会议之下并未受到多少保护。第8章要求各国应该尊重、保护和维持原住民的知识、发明及风俗和本土社区所表现的传统文化形态等。并在拥有这些知识、发明及风俗的所有者的同意及参与下推广其更广泛的应用，鼓励他们将所得利益公平分享。(来源: RRDA /  WRES)

Code: 4206
English Term: indirect discharger
Definition: A non-domestic source introducing pollutants into a publicly owned waste-treatment system. Indirect dischargers can be commercial or industrial facilities whose wastes enter local sewers.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 间接排放者
Translation: 非住宅用的污染源将废弃物排入公共污水下水道系统。此间接排放者可能是商业或工业设备，它们把废水排到当地下水道。(来源: EPAGLO)


Code: 12278
English Term: individual wastewater treatment
Definition: The process of using a natural system or mechanical device to collect, treat and discharge or reclaim wastewater from an individual dwelling without the use of community-wide sewers or a centralised treatment facility.&#10;(Source: DWT)
Chinese Term: 废水个别处理
Translation: 采用一个天然系统或机械装置，而不使用全社区性的下水道或集中处理设施，从个人住所收集、处理、排放或改善废水的过程。

Code: 4209
English Term: indoor air pollution
Definition: Chemical, physical or biological contaminants in the air inside buildings and other enclosed spaces occupied by humans. This pollution can arise from tobacco smoke, pesticides, cleaning agents, gases released from building materials, rugs, household products, etc.&#10;(Source: EED /  ISEP)
Chinese Term:室内空气污染
Translation: 建筑物及其它人类居住的密封空间内的空气中所含的化学的、物理的、生物的污染物质。这些污染物质可能来自抽烟、农药、清洁剂、及由建材、地毯、家用产品所释放的气体。(来源: EED / ISEP)

Code: 4211
English Term: indoor environment
Definition: Environment situated in the inside of a house or other building.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:室内环境
Translation: 在房屋或其它建筑物内的环境。(来源: CED)

Code: 12450
English Term: industrial activity
Definition: Operations, functions and processes involved in industrial production.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:工业活动
Translation: 工业生产中的操作、运行和加工活动。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4213
English Term: industrial area
Definition: Areas allocated for industry within a town-planning scheme or environmental plan. The range of industries accommodated in a plan may include: light industry, service industry, general industry, hazardous, noxious or offensive industry, waterfront industry, extractive industry. Standards are usually defined for industrial areas relating to access and roads, drainage, car parking, aesthetics, landscaping, buffer zones, noise levels, and air and water pollution.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term:工业区
Translation: 城镇规划方案或环境规划中分配作为工业发展的所在地。计划中工业区可容纳的工厂有：轻工业、服务业、一般工业、有害、有毒或国防工业、沿海工业、采掘工业。在工业区内对于进出管制、道路使用权利、排放水、停车、美学、景观、缓冲区、噪音限值和空气和水的污染皆订有管制标准。(来源: GILP96)

Code: 4216
English Term: industrial association
Definition:
Chinese Term: 产业协会
Translation:

Code: 4217
English Term: industrial building
Definition: A building directly used in manufacturing or technically productive enterprises. Industrial buildings are not generally or typically accessible to other than workers. Industrial buildings include buildings used directly in the production of power, the manufacture of products, the mining of raw materials, and the storage of textiles, petroleum products, wood and paper products, chemicals, plastics, and metals.&#10;(Source: JJK)
Chinese Term:工业建筑物
Translation: 作为生产制造和技术生产事业所使用的建筑。工业建筑通常仅允许工人进入。工业建筑包含电力生产、产品制造、原料开采、以及纺织品、石油产品、木材和纸制品、化学物、塑胶和金属等物品的储存。(来源: JJK)

Code: 4224
English Term: industrial crop
Definition: Any crop that provides materials for industrial processes and products such as soybeans, cotton (lint and seed), flax, and tobacco.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 工业原料作物
Translation: 任何一种可供工业生产和加工原料的作物，如大豆、棉花(棉絮及种子)、亚麻和烟草等。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4226
English Term: industrial development
Definition:
Chinese Term:工业发展
Translation:

Code: 4227
English Term: industrial dumping
Definition: The disposal of any waste generated by a manufacturing or processing process by the agency or body which produced it.&#10;(Source: RHW / ERG)
Chinese Term: 工业倾销（废品）
Translation: 经销商或生产商在制造或处理程序中对所产生任何废弃物的处置。(来源: RHW / ERG)

Code: 4228
English Term: industrial economics
Definition: The production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services resulting from all manufacturing business.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:工业经济
Translation:整个制造业的货品和服务的生产、分配和消费。(来源: RHW)

Code: 4229
English Term: industrial effluent
Definition: Materials generally discarded from industrial operations or derived from manufacturing processes.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 工业废水
Translation: 通常是工业操作或制造过程中所排放的物质。(来源: LANDY)

Code: 4231
English Term: industrial emission
Definition: Gas-borne pollutants discharged into the atmosphere from smokestacks of industrial plants.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 工业废气
Translation: 由工厂烟囱排放进入大气的气体承载污染物。（来源：LEE）

Code: 10099
English Term: industrial environment (in general)
Definition: Environment where the manifold activities connected with the production of goods and services take place.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:工业环境（一般的）
Translation: 与货品生产和服务发生相关的多种活动所处的环境。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4233
English Term: industrial environmental policy
Definition: The guiding procedure, philosophy or course of action for the protection of natural resources from pollution generated by manufacturing or business enterprises.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:工业环境政策
Translation: 为保护自然资源免受制造或商业企业产生的污染而制定的指引程序、理念或行动。（来源：RRDA）

Code: 4234
English Term: industrial equipment
Definition: Equipment related to industrial activities.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:工业设备
Translation:与工业活动相关的设备。（来源：RRDA）

Code: 4238
English Term: industrial fume
Definition: Any smokelike or vaporous exhalation from matters or substances, especially of an odorous or harmful nature, which result from trading, commercial or manufacturing processes.&#10;(Source: RHW / ALL)
Chinese Term:工业烟雾
Translation: 由贸易、商业、制造过程所产生的，特别是由难闻或有害原料或物质散发出来的类似烟雾或蒸气排放物。(来源: RHW / ALL)

Code: 4242
English Term: industrial installation
Definition: A device, system or piece of equipment installed for a particular industry.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 工业装置
Translation: 为特定工业所安装的设备、系统或仪器。(来源: CED)

Code: 4247
English Term: industrial legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate working conditions or the acquisition, processing and disposal of materials by the aggregate of factories, companies and enterprises in one or more manufacturing or technically productive fields.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:工业法规
Translation: 由政府用来管制工作状态或由一家或多家属制造或技术生产领域的工厂、公司和企业用来管制原料取得、处理及处置所规定必须遵守的规则或法体。

Code: 13226
English Term: industrial manufacturing
Definition: To make or process (a raw material) into a finished product, especially by means of a large-scale industrial operation.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term:工业制造
Translation: 将原料制成或加工成成品的过程，特别指通过大规模的工业生产的过程。(来源: AMHER)

Code: 4249
English Term: industrial material
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:工业原料
Translation:（不需要定义）

Code: 4250
English Term: industrial medicine
Definition: The branch of medicine which deals with the relationship of humans to their occupations, for the purpose of the prevention of disease and injury and the promotion of optimal health, productivity, and social adjustment.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:工业医学
Translation: 处理人与其职业间关系的医学分支,主要目的是为了达到避免疾病与伤害并促进健康的改进、提高生产效率、增进社会的调节。

Code: 4251
English Term: industrial noise
Definition: Noise produced by industrial plants activities.
Chinese Term:工业噪音
Translation:工业设备操作所产生的噪音。

Code: 4253
English Term: industrial planning
Definition: The process of making arrangements or preparations to facilitate the manufacturing, producing and processing of goods or merchandise.&#10;(Source: RHW / ODE)
Chinese Term:工业规划
Translation: 便利商品或货物之制造、生产及处理所作的安排或准备程序。(来源: RHW / ODE)

Code: 4254
English Term: industrial plant (building)
Definition: Buildings where the operations related to industrial productive processes are carried out.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:工厂（建筑物）
Translation: 从事工业生产相关活动所在的建筑物。 (来源: ZINZAN)

Code: 13189
English Term: industrial plant (organism)
Definition: Plants employed in industry, e.g. cotton, flax, hemp, peanuts, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:工业作物（有机体、生物）
Translation: 用于工业上的栽种作物，例如棉花、亚麻、大麻(纤维)、花生等。(来源： RRDA)

Code: 4255
English Term: industrial policy
Definition: Course of action adopted by national government to support and promote industrial activities.&#10;(Source: GOODa)
Chinese Term:工业政策
Translation:国家政府采用的、用来支持和提升工业活动的方针原则 (来源：GOODa)

Code: 4256
English Term: industrial pollution
Definition: Pollution as a result of industrial processes and manufacturing.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:工业污染
Translation:由于工业流程和制造业所导致的污染(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4257
English Term: industrial process
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:工业流程、工序
Translation:

Code: 4260
English Term: industrial product
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:工业产品
Translation:

Code: 4258
English Term: industrial production
Definition: Any process of converting or transforming raw materials and other resources into goods or services which have value.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 工业生产
Translation: 任何将原料和其它资源转变成有价值的商品或服务的过程。(来源: ODE)

Code: 4259
English Term: industrial production statistics
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:工业生产统计
Translation:

Code: 4262
English Term: industrial property right
Definition: A justifiable claim granted by government or some other authority that offers protection or excludes others from making, using or selling an invention, a unique design of an article of manufacture or some other creation or discovery.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 工业财产权
Translation: 由政府或其他权责单位所赋予的正当权利﹐其目的为了保护或排除他人制造、使用或贩卖某一发明、某一产品制造的独特设计或其它的创造发明。(来源: BLD)

Code: 12764
English Term: industrial safety
Definition: Measures or techniques implemented to reduce the risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment in any facility or place involving the manufacturing, producing and processing of goods or merchandise.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term:工业安全保障
Translation: 在任何有关货物或商品制造、生产和处理的设施或地方，为了降低对个人、财产或环境的伤害、损失与危险所采用的方法与技术。(来源: ODE)

Code: 4267
English Term: industrial site
Definition: The location for the individual manufacturing firm.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:工业地点
Translation:个体工业制造公司的地点。(来源: GOOD)

Code: 4268
English Term: industrial sludge
Definition: Sludge produced as a result of industrial production processes or manufacturing.
Chinese Term: 工业污泥
Translation: 由工业生产或制造过程产生的污泥。

Code: 4269
English Term: industrial society
Definition: A large-scale community with diverse manufacturing sectors and an infrastructure and economy based on the science, technology and instrumental rationality of the modern West.&#10;(Source: FUT / RHW)
Chinese Term:工业社会
Translation: 以现代西方科学、技术与理性手段为基础，具有不同制造部门与公共设施与经济条件的大型社区。(来源: FUT / RHW)

Code: 13179
English Term: industrial structure
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term:产业结构
Translation:

Code: 4273
English Term: industrial waste
Definition: Waste materials discarded from industrial operations, or derived from manufacturing processes; may be solid, sludge (wet solids) or liquid wastes and may or may not be considered hazardous.&#10;(Source: HMD /  ISEP)
Chinese Term:工业废料
Translation: 由工业操作或制造过程丢弃的废弃物质，可能是固体、污泥（湿固体）或液体废弃物，可能具有或不具有有害性。(来源: HMD /  ISEP)

Code: 4274
English Term: industrial waste gas
Definition: Waste gases resulting from manufacturing and other industrial processes which may be treated and released, treated and reused or released without treatment.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term:工业废气
Translation: 由（工业）制造和其他工业程序产生的废气，这些废气可能经处理后排放、处理后回收再用或未经处理就排放。(来源: ISEP)

Code: 4276
English Term: industrial waste water
Definition: Waste water that results from industrial processes and manufacturing. It may either be disposed of separately or become part of the sanitary or combined sewage.
Chinese Term: 工业废水
Translation: 由工业制程中产生的废水。这些废水可被单独处理或纳入卫生下水道或合流式下水道处理。

Code: 12456
English Term: industrial wasteland
Definition: Area of land which is no longer usable for cultivation or for any other purpose after having been the site of an industrial plant.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term:工业废弃土地
Translation: 过去曾是工厂用地，而今无法再作为农地或其它用途的土地区块。(来源: PHCa)

Code: 4278
English Term: industrial zoning
Definition: A system of land use planning that forms zones or boundaries to be used only by manufacturing or business enterprises.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 工业分区制
Translation: 一种土地使用规划系统，形成只有生产或商业企业所使用的区域或界线。(来源: ISEP)

#Code: 4242
#English Term: industrialisation
#Definition: A system of land use planning that forms zones or boundaries to be used only by manufacturing or business enterprises.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
#Chinese Term: 工业化
#Translation: 在一个国家或区域经济中，制造工业逐渐占有优势地位的过程。(来源: ISEP)

Code: 4279
English Term: industry
Definition: An industry is a group of establishments engaged in the same or similar kinds of economic activities. Industries produce commodities that are sold with the expectation of recovering the total cost of production. A single industry can produce many different commodities.&#10;(Source: PGE)
Chinese Term: 工业
Translation:工业代表一类从事相同或类似经济活动的企业。工业生产的商品被期待以高于生产总成本的价格出售。一种工业可生产许多不同的商品。(来源: PGE)

Code: 4283
English Term: inert waste
Definition: Wastes that do not undergo any significant physical, chemical, or biological transformations when deposited in a landfill.
Chinese Term: 惰性废料
Translation: 经过垃圾掩埋处置后，不会进行任何明显物理、化学或生物转化的废弃物。

Code: 4282
English Term: inertisation
Definition: The process of waste inertisation includes solidification and stabilisation; stabilisation is the process used for reduction of hazard potential of the waste by converting the contaminants into their least soluble, least immobile, or least toxic form. Solidification physically binds or encapsulates the waste in a monolithic solid of high structural integrity. Thus solidification may be used for powders, liquids or gases.&#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term: 惰化
Translation: 垃圾惰化的过程包括两个步骤，即固化和稳定化；稳定化是指把废弃物中的污染物转化成更难溶、更稳定、具有最小毒性的物质，从而降低废弃物潜在的毒性。固化是指通过物理作用将废物联结或压缩成一个大的集合体的过程，因此固化广泛适用于粉末固体、液体和气体的处理。(来源: ENVAR)

Code: 9406
English Term: infant
Definition: A young child in the first years of life.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 婴儿
Translation: 一岁以下的小孩。(来源: ISEP)


Code: 4284
English Term: infant mortality
Definition: The rate of deaths occurring in the first year of life for a given population.&#10;(Source: MED)
Chinese Term: 婴儿死亡率
Translation: 在一定的人口中，出生一年内的婴儿死亡的比率。(来源: MED)

Code: 4286
English Term: infection
Definition: The entry and development or multiplication of an infectious agent in the body of a living organism.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:传染
Translation: 传染性病原入侵活有机体并发展或复制的过程。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 4288
English Term: infectious disease
Definition: Pathogenic condition resulting from invasion of a host by a pathogen that propagates causing infection.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 传染病
Translation: 由于会传染且引起发炎的病原宿主的侵入，而导致的疾病状态。 (来源: KOREN)

Code: 4289
English Term: infestation of crops
Definition: Invasion of crop by parasites. Among vertebrate animals, many crop pests are mammals, especially in the order of rodents and birds. Among invertebrates, certain species of gastropods and a large number of roundworms from the class of nematodes harm crops. The most varied and numerous species of crop pests are arthropods-insects, arachnids and some species of millipedes and crustaceans. Diseases vary from viral, bacterial, and nutritional to fungal, environmental and non-specific. The FAO has estimated that annual worldwide losses done by plant pests and diseases amount to approximately 20-25% of the potential worldwide yield of food crops.&#10;(Source: RRDA /  WPR)
Chinese Term: 农作物虫害
Translation: 农作物遭受寄生虫的侵害。在脊椎动物中，许多的作物害虫为哺乳动物，尤其是啮齿目动物和鸟类。在无脊椎动物中，某些种类的腹足动物和数量颇大属线虫纲的迴虫也会对作物造成危害。种类最多和数目最大的作物害虫为节肢昆虫、蛛形纲动物和某些种类的节肢动物和甲壳纲动物。病害随著病毒、细菌、真菌、覃菌类营养和环境而异。FAO (联合国粮农组织) 估计每年全世界植物病虫害的损失约占全世界食用作物产量的20~25%。(来源: RRDA /  WPR)

Code: 4290
English Term: infestation of food
Definition: Food that has been contaminated and deteriorated by some kind of pest.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 受虫害的食物
Translation: 已遭受某些害虫污染或败坏的食物。(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4291
English Term: infiltration
Definition: Movement of water through the soil surface into the ground.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 渗透
Translation: 水流过土壤表面进入地下的运动过程。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4296
English Term: inflammable substance
Definition: Substance liable to catch fire.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 易燃物
Translation: 容易着火的物质。（来源：CED）

Code: 4300
English Term: inflow
Definition: 1) Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service connections) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration. &#10;2) Action of flowing in; an inflow of effluent into a river.&#10;(Source: JJK /  PHC)
Chinese Term: 入流水
Translation: (1)除污水外其他进入污水下水道系统的水，来源于（但不限于）屋顶导流、地窖排水、庭院排水、场地排水、泉水和沼泽地区的排水、人孔盖、暴雨排水管和生活污水管之间的交叉连接、过滤器、冷却塔、雨水、地表径流、洗街废水和排放水。入流水不应包括渗透水,且与渗透水有明显区别。 (2)流入的过程；放入流水流入江河中。(来源: JJK / PHC)

Code: 4301
English Term: informal negotiation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 非正式协商
Translation:

Code: 4302
English Term: informatics
Definition: Science and technique of data elaboration and of automatic treatment of information.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 信息学
Translation:数据精化和信息自动处理的科学与技术。 (来源: ZINZAN)

Code: 4303
English Term: information
Definition: All facts, ideas or imaginative works of the mind which have been communicated, published or distributed formally or informally in any format, or the knowledge that is  communicated or received.&#10;(Source: CCL / RHW)
Chinese Term:信息
Translation: 以正式或任何形式的非正式方式交流、出版或分发的所有事实、想法或具有想象力的工作，以及被交流或接收的知识(来源: CCL / RHW)

Code: 13041
English Term: information centre
Definition: Any facility devoted to the collection, maintenance and distribution of materials or data compiled to convey knowledge on some subject, often with trained staff persons available to answer questions.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息中心
Translation: 用于收集、保存、分配材料或数据的设施，这些材料或数据被汇编起来传递某一主题的知识，通常备有训练过的人员用以回答问题。(来源: RHW)

Code: 14892
English Term: information clearing-house
Definition: A central institution or agency for the collection, maintenance, and distribution of materials or data compiled to convey knowledge on some subject.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息交换中心
Translation: 负责收集、维护及分发材料或数据的中央机构或专业行政机构，该材料或数据是被汇编起来传递某一主题知识的。(来源: RHW)

Code: 14896
English Term: information exchange
Definition: A reciprocal transference of data between two or more parties for the purpose of enhancing knowledge of the participants.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息交换
Translation: 用于提升参与者知识的目的而在双方或多方之间进行的相互的数据传递。(来源: RHW)

Code: 14856
English Term: information infrastructure
Definition: The basic, underlying framework and features of a communications system supporting the exchange of knowledge, including hardware, software and transmission media.&#10;(Source: WIC / RHW)
Chinese Term:信息架构
Translation: 通讯系统的基础、底层架构和特性，该系统支援知识交换，包括硬件、软件和传输介质。(来源: WIC / RHW)

Code: 14871
English Term: information kit
Definition: A set or collection of materials compiled to convey knowledge on some subject and usually placed in some type of container.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息套组
Translation: 一组或一套经过汇编以传递某些主题知识的素材，通常放置在某种容器包装中。(来源: RHW)

Code: 13060
English Term: information network
Definition: A system of interrelated persons and/or devices linked to permit the exchange of data or knowledge.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term:信息网络
Translation:一个连接内部相关人员和/或设备并允许它们之间进行知识、数据交换的系统。(来源: ISEP /  RHW)

Code: 4307
English Term: information processing
Definition: A systematic series of actions performed by a person or computer on data elements including classifying, sorting, calculating, summarizing, transmitting, retrieving and receiving.&#10;(Source: JON)
Chinese Term:信息处理
Translation: 个人或电脑针对资料所执行的系统化地一系列行动，包括分类、排序、计算、总结、传输、恢复和接收。(来源: JON)

Code: 4309
English Term: information service
Definition: An organized system of providing assistance or aid to individuals who are seeking information, such as by using databases and other information sources to communicate or supply knowledge or factual data.&#10;(Source: RHW / OMD)
Chinese Term:信息服务
Translation: 为个人寻找信息的提供协助的组织性系统，如使用数据库与其它信息来源进行交流、提供知识及事实资料。(来源: RHW / OMD)

Code: 4310
English Term: information source
Definition: Generally, any resource initiating and substantiating the reception of knowledge or specifically, the origin of a data transmission.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息来源
Translation: 一般说明创始并实例化知识接收的任何来源，特别指数据传输的来源。(来源: RHW)

Code: 4311
English Term: information system
Definition: Any coordinated assemblage of persons, devices and institutions used for communicating or exchanging knowledge or data, such as by simple verbal communication, or by completely computerized methods of storing, searching and retrieving information.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term:信息系统
Translation: 用来沟通交换知识或资料的人、设备和机构之间的整合的集合，如通过简单的口头交流或通过完全电脑化方法储存、查寻、重新获得信息。(来源: MHD)

Code: 4313
English Term: information technology
Definition: The systems, equipment, components and software required to ensure the retrieval, processing and storage of information in all centres of human activity (home, office, factory, etc.), the application of which generally requires the use of electronics or similar technology.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term:信息科技
Translation:可用以确保人们各样活动(如在家中、办公室和工厂等)中的信息抽取、处理和贮存的系统、设备、组件及软件。该技术之运用通常需要运用电子学及其相关知识。(来源: ECHO2)

Code: 13215
English Term: information technology industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of electronic machines designed to accept information or data that is easily manipulated for some result based on a program or some set of instructions, and the technology or materials used with these machines, such as storage devices, terminals and peripheral equipment.&#10;(Source: WIC / SIC)
Chinese Term:信息科技工业
Translation: 商业企业集合中的经济部门，该部门从事可接收信息或数据的电子产品的开发，制造和销售，利用一系列的指令、程序或其它如存贮器，终端和周边设备，该产品可以很方便的对输入的数据进行操作，从而快速地得到分析的结果。(来源: WIC / SIC)

Code: 10024
English Term: information transfer
Definition: The communication or conveyance of data or materials for the purpose of enhancing knowledge from one person, place or position to another.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:信息传输
Translation: 为了加强不同位置间人与人之间的知识传递而进行的数据或材料的通讯或传送。(来源: RHW)

Code: 4315
English Term: infraction
Definition: A breach, violation, or infringement; as of a law, a contract, a right or duty.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term:违法
Translation: 对法律、契约、权利或责任的破坏、违规、或侵犯。(来源: BLACK)

Code: 4317
English Term: infrared radiation
Definition: Electron magnetic radiation whose wavelengths lie in the range from 0.75 or 0.8 micrometer to 1000 micrometers.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 红外线辐射
Translation: 介于波长0.75或0.80微米至1000微米间之电磁辐射。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4320
English Term: infrasound
Definition: Vibrations of the air at frequencies too low to be perceived as sound by the human ear, below about 15 hertz.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 超低频音
Translation: 低于15赫兹，人耳无法识别的空气振动频率。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4321
English Term: infrastructure
Definition: The basic network or foundation of capital facilities or community investments which are necessary to support economic and community activities.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 公共建设
Translation: 支撑经济和社区大众活动必须的重要设施或社区投资的基本网络或基础建设。(来源: LANDY)

Code: 4323
English Term: inhabitant
Definition: A person occupying a region, town, house, country, etc.
Chinese Term: 居民
Translation: 居住于某个区域、城市、房子、国家等的个人。

Code: 10780
English Term: initial training
Definition: Any education, instruction or discipline occurring at the beginning of an activity, task, occupation or life span.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 职前训练
Translation: 在一项活动、任务、职业或人生开始之际所进行的教育、指导或训练。(来源: RHW)

Code: 4325
English Term: injury
Definition: A stress upon an organism that disrupts the structure or function and results in a pathological process.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term:伤害
Translation: 加在有机体上而破坏其结构或功能，进而导致一段病理过程的压力。(来源: KOREN)

Code: 4326
English Term: ink
Definition: A dispersion of a pigment or a solution of a dye in a carrier vehicle, yielding a fluid, paste, or powder to be applied to and dried on a substrate; writing, marking, drawing, and printing inks are applied by several methods to paper, metal, plastic, wood, glass, fabric, or other substrate.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 油墨
Translation: 一种颜料的分散或填料展色的染料溶液。可以产生流动的，粘稠的或粉末状物质并能够从底层干透。墨水、打印油墨和印刷油墨被应用到纸张、金属、塑胶、木材、玻璃、纤维或其它物质上。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4329
English Term: inland fishery
Definition: Fishing grounds located in lakes, streams, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 内陆钓鱼区
Translation: 处于湖泊、溪流等的可钓鱼的地方(来源: RRDA)

Code: 4331
English Term: inland navigation
Definition: The navigation of inland waterways, i.e. navigable rivers, canals, sounds, lakes, inlets, etc.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 内河航行
Translation: 内陆水道的航行，水道包括:可通航的江河、运河、峡湾、湖泊、港口等。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4333
English Term: inland water
Definition: A lake, river, or other body of water wholly within the boundaries of a state.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:内陆水
Translation:湖泊、河流或其他形式整体都在国家疆土范围内的水。(来源: MGH)

Code: 4336
English Term: inland waterways transport
Definition: Transportation of persons and goods by boats travelling on rivers, channels or lakes.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:内陆水路运输
Translation:通过船在河流、渠道或湖泊上航行对人和货物的运输(来源: RRDA)

Code: 13748
English Term: inner city
Definition: 1) Part of a city at or near the centre, especially a slum area where poor people live in bad housing.&#10; 2) City centres of many industrialized countries which exhibit environmental degradation. The numerous and highly competitive activities entailing land use overwhelm the limited space and create a situation of overcrowding, functional incompatibility and cultural degradation. Inner city areas have a high level of commercial specialization, a large number of offices and a sizeable daytime population. At the same time, city centres generally remain a sort of ghetto for a permanent, low-income population living in run-down housing and enjoying little in the way of public services and civic amenities. The concentration of service industries inevitably entails the replacement of traditional housing and shops by office blocks, the provision of basic utilities at the expense of civic amenities and the provision of major access roads which eat up urban space. Structures of historic origin are often unable to meet modern requirements and, notwithstanding their value, frequently face demolition.&#10;(Source: PHC /  WPR)
Chinese Term: 市内贫民区
Translation: 1)城市中在市中心或接近市中心的部份，尤指穷人居住的贫民区。2) 许多环境恶化的工业化国家的市中心区。数量众多且高竞争性活动带来的土地过量使用，会侵占有限空间，造成过度拥挤、各种功能无法互相协调，及文化衰退。市中心地区具有高度商业化特性，拥有许多办公室和可观的日间工作人口。同时，市中心通常一直为贫民区，有着一群固定的低收入人口，居住在年久失修的房屋中，很少享受到公共服务和都市化的舒适。随着服务产业的集中，办公大楼不可避免的取代传统住宅及商店，基本公共设施的提供相对的牺牲都市舒适度，而主要联络道路也侵吞了都市空间。 (来源: PHC /  WPR)

Code: 4340
English Term: innovation
Definition: Something newly introduced, such as a new method or device.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:创新
Translation:一些新生事物的引入，例如新的方法和设备。(来源:CED)

Code: 4342
English Term: inorganic chemistry
Definition: A branch of chemistry dealing with the chemical reactions and properties of all inorganic matter.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 无机化学
Translation: 化学的分支，研究各种无机物的化学反应和化学性质。(来源:LEE)

Code: 4345
English Term: inorganic fertiliser
Definition: Inorganic chemical which promotes plant growth by enhancing the supply of essential nutrients such as ammonium sulphate or lime.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 无机肥
Translation: 用以提高所需基本营养物的供应来促进植物生长的无机化学物质，如硫酸铵或石灰。(来源:PORT)

Code: 4347
English Term: inorganic pollutant
Definition: A pollutant of mineral origin and not of basically carbon structure.&#10;(Source: ERG)
Chinese Term: 无机污染物
Translation: 源自矿物且基本不含碳结构的一种污染物。(来源:ERG)

Code: 4350
English Term: inorganic substance
Definition: Chemical compounds that do not contain carbon as the principal element (excepting carbonates, cyanides, and cyanoses), that is, matter other than plant or animal.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:无机物质
Translation:碳不为主要元素的化合物(除了碳酸盐、氰化物、和氨基氰)，意指动物、植物之外的物质。(来源:MGH)

Code: 4358
English Term: insect
Definition: A class of the Arthropods typically having a segmented body with an external, chitinous covering, a pair of compound eyes, a pair of antennae, three pairs of mouthparts, and two pairs of wings.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term:昆虫
Translation: 属节肢动物纲。典型特征包括外覆有几丁质的分节身体，有一对复眼，一对触角，三对口器，两对翅。(来源:MGH)

Code: 4354
English Term: insecticide
Definition: Any chemical agent used to destroy invertebrate pests.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term:杀虫剂
Translation:用于杀死无脊椎类害虫的化学药剂。(来源:LBC)

Code: 4356
English Term: insectivore
Definition: Any placental mammal of the order Insectivore, being typically small, with simple teeth, and feeding on invertebrates. The group includes shrews, moles, and hedgehogs.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term:食虫动物
Translation:任何属于食虫目而有胎盘的哺乳动物，一般体型较小，具有简单的牙齿，以无脊椎动物为食物。此类动物包括鼩鼱，钱鼠与刺猬。(来源:CED)

Code: 11791
English Term: insoluble substance
Definition: Substance incapable of forming a solution, especially in water.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 不溶解性物质
Translation:不能溶于溶液的物质，特别是指不溶于水。(来源:CED)

Code: 4360
English Term: inspection
Definition: An official examination and evaluation of the extent to which specified goals, objectives, standards, policies or procedures of an agency, organization, department or unit have been met properly.&#10;(Source: DAM)
Chinese Term: 检查
Translation: 一种正式检查及评估的程序，用以了解机关、组织、部门或单位特定目的、目标、标准、政策或规范是否确切达成。(来源:DAM)

Code: 4361
English Term: inspection of records
Definition:
Chinese Term: 记录检查
Translation:

Code: 4362
English Term: inspection service
Definition: An organization designated to look into, supervise and report upon, the staff members and workings of some institution or department, or the conforming to laws and regulations by a segment of society or other group.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 监督部门
Translation: 由社会某一部门或另一团体，用来调查、监督和评价人员以及一些机构和部门的工作，或对法律和法规的遵守情况的组织。(来源:OED)

Code: 5885
English Term: installation optimisation
Definition: Adjustments made to a building or to a mechanical or electrical system or apparatus in order to maximize its functionality and efficiency.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 装备最优化
Translation: 为了使建筑物、机械、电子系统或者设备到达最大功率和效率而做的调整。(来源: OED)

Code: 4363
English Term: installation requiring approval
Definition: The official authorization needed to assemble and place into position any apparatus, facility, military post or machinery.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 装备需求认可
Translation: 组装和配置任何仪器、设备、军事营区或机械所需要的正式授权认可。(来源: RHW)


Code: 4040
English Term: installation restoration
Definition: The process of repairing or reconstructing an edifice in order to return it to its original condition.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 设施复原
Translation: 为了使建筑物恢复原来面貌所进行的维修和重建的过程。(来源: ZINZANa)


Code: 13293
English Term: institutional activity
Definition: The specific tasks, undertakings or functions that governments, businesses and other organizations perform.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 机构活动
Translation:政府、企业或其他组织执行的具体的任务、工程或者机能职责。

Code: 13292
English Term: institutional structure
Definition: An organization's complex system of mutually connected and dependent elements or parts, which make up a definite manner of arrangement.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 体制结构
Translation: 一个组织的复杂体系，由相互连接和依赖的元素或部分组成的一个明确的行为约定。

Code: 4365
English Term: institutionalisation
Definition: The establishment and normalization of a law, custom, usage, practice, system or regulative principle in the activity or purpose of a group or organization.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 制度化
Translation: 在一个团体或组织中的活动或活动目标中，法律、惯例、习俗、行为、系统或者调节原则的建立和规范化。

Code: 4369
English Term: instrument manufacture
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 器械制造
Translation: 无需定义

Code: 11701
English Term: instrumentation
Definition: Designing, manufacturing, and utilizing physical instruments or instrument systems for detection, observation, measurement, automatic control, automatic computation, communication, or data processing.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 器械制造法
Translation: 设计、制造以及使用物理测量仪器或仪器系统进行探测、监视、量化、自动控制、自动计算、通讯或数据处理。

Code: 15020
English Term: insulating material
Definition: Material that prevents or reduces the transmission of electricity, heat, or sound to or from a body, device or region.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 绝缘材料
Translation: 阻止或降低电流、热量、声音在人体、设备或区域间传输的材料。

Code: 4518
English Term: insulation (process)
Definition: The process of preventing or reducing the transmission of electricity, heat, or sound to or from a body, device, or region by surrounding it with a nonconducting material.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 绝缘（过程）
Translation: 通过在人体、设备以及区域范围以绝缘材料而阻止或降低电流、热量、声音传输的过程。

Code: 4374
English Term: insurance
Definition: The act, system, or business of providing financial protection contingencies, such as death, loss or damage and involving payment of regular premiums in return for a policy guaranteeing such protection.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 保险
Translation: 为突发事件，例如意外死亡、财产损失或者人身伤害等提供经济保障的法案、系统或者企业，其需要定期支付保险金以得到这些保障。

Code: 4375
English Term: insurance business
Definition: A commercial service which provides a guarantee against most losses or harm to a person, property or a firm in return for premiums paid.&#10;(Source: RHW /  ISEP)
Chinese Term: 保险业务
Translation: 一种商业服务，其为大多数的人身、财产或者公司的损失或损害提供有偿的保障。

Code: 4376
English Term: insurance coverage
Definition: The protection provided against risks or a risk, often as specified by the type of protection or the item being protected.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 保险责任范围
Translation: 提供的风险保护内容，其通常由保护类型或特定项目类型来确定。

Code: 4378
English Term: integral natural reserve
Definition: Areas allocated to preserve and protect certain animals and plants, or both. They differ from national parks, which are largely a place for public recreation, because they are provided exclusively to protect species for their own sake. Endangered species are increasingly being kept in nature reserves to prevent them from extinction. Nature reserves also serve as a place for more plentiful species to rest, breed or winter.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 综合自然保护区
Translation: 用以维持和保护某些特定的动物、植物或两者兼而有之的地区。国家公园大部分是公众休闲的地方，与国家公园不同，自然保护区是专门用来保护物种的。濒危物种越来越多地被放在自然保护区，以防止其灭绝，自然保护区也成为更多更丰富物种的休息、繁殖或过冬的地方。

Code: 4382
English Term: integrated environmental protection technology
Definition: Technologies that meet environmental objectives by incorporating pollution prevention concepts in their design. Integrated environmental control strategies introduced in the early design stages of a process, rather than an end-of-pipe control option introduced in the later stages, improve the technical and economic performance of a process.&#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term: 综合环境保护技术
Translation: 在设计中纳入污染防治观念以符合环境目标的技术。综合环境控制一项工序在初期设计阶段所使用的战略，而不是一个在后续的阶段推出的工序结束时的控制选项，此用来提高工艺/工艺的技术和经济性能。

Code: 10256
English Term: integrated management
Definition: Unified, combined and coordinated management of environmental problems which correlates relevant organisations, groups, individuals and disciplines by bringing the parts together for a complete approach.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 综合管理
Translation: 对环境问题的统一、联合和协调的管理，其通过把所依赖的有关组织、团体、个体以及相关行为准则集中考虑以得出一个完整的解决方案。

Code: 4383
English Term: integrated pest control
Definition: A systematic, comprehensive approach to pest control that uses the insect's or rodent's own biology and behaviour to find the least toxic control methods at the lowest cost.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 综合虫害控制
Translation: 一个系统的、全面的害虫控制方法，它使用昆虫或啮齿目动物自身的生理和行为以得到最低成本和最低毒性的控制方法。

Code: 4386
English Term: integrated pollution control
Definition: A procedure whereby all major emissions to land, air, and water are considered simultaneously and not in isolation to avoid situations in which one control measure for one medium adversely affects another.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 综合污染控制
Translation: 一个过程，将所有主要排放到土地、空气和水的主要排放物被认为是同时的非独立的，以避免一项需要特定测量工具的控制会负面的影响另外一项。

Code: 4390
English Term: intensive animal husbandry
Definition: Specialized system of breeding animals where the livestock are kept indoors and fed on concentrated foodstuffs, with frequent use of drugs to control diseases which are a constant threat under these conditions.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 密集型畜牧业
Translation: 饲养禽畜的专业系统。禽畜饲养在室内，由专门饲料喂养，通过频繁使用药物控制在此种环境下经常产生的疾病威胁。

Code: 4391
English Term: intensive farming
Definition: Farming in which as much use is made of the land as possible by growing crops close together or by growing several crops in a year or by using large amounts of fertilizers.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 密集型农业
Translation: 尽最大可能提高土地利用率的农业生产。其通过将多种作物紧密种植在一起、或一年内种植多种作物、或者使用大量化肥来实现。

Code: 4395
English Term: interaction of pesticides
Definition: The enhancement of activity of pesticides when they are used in combination with others.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 农药的互作用性
Translation: 与其它药物合用时，本农药的活性增强的特性。

Code: 4398
English Term: interchange of electronic data
Definition: A transference of binary coded information items between two or more computers across any communications channel capable of carrying electromagnetic signals.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term: 电子数据交换
Translation: 二进制编码信息在两个或两个以上计算机间通过任何可以传送电磁信号的通信渠道转移的过程。

Code: 4400
English Term: interdisciplinary research
Definition: The utilisation, combination and coordination of two or more appropriate disciplines, technologies and humanities in an integrated approach toward environmental problems.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 跨学科研究
Translation: 对两个或多个合适的学科的利用、组合和协调。这些学科包括技术学科和人文学科等，用以解决环境问题的综合方法

Code: 4401
English Term: interest
Definition: A sum paid or charged for the use of money or for borrowing money over a given time period.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 利润
Translation: 资金在给定时间内由于使用或借贷所需支付或者收取的总量。

Code: 4402
English Term: interest group
Definition: A group of people who share common traits, attitudes, beliefs or objectives and who have formed a formal organization to serve specific concerns of the membership.&#10;(Source: AUB)
Chinese Term: 利益集团
Translation: 有共同的特点、态度、信念和目标的一些人，并且这些人已组成一个正式的组织来服务于成员们的具体关注点。

Code: 4404
English Term: interim decision
Definition:
Chinese Term: 临时决定
Translation:

Code: 4408
English Term: interlaboratory comparison
Definition: Tests performed at the same time in different laboratories to validate the quality of the results.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 实验室间比较
Translation: 为了验证结果的质量，在同一时间、不同实验室间进行的测试。

Code: 14888
English Term: inter-library loan
Definition: The service provided by one library in which a second library's clients are temporarily allowed to use books and other printed materials belonging to the first library; and consequently the system providing rules and infrastructure for this service to a group of libraries.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 图书馆间借贷
Translation: 一项有某个图书馆提供的允许其他图书馆的用户暂时允许使用其书籍和其它印刷材料的服务，继而是为这项服务提供在一组图书馆间实施的规则和基础设施的系统。

Code: 4410
English Term: intermediate goods
Definition: Partly finished goods or products that re-enter into production elsewhere.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  MGHME)
Chinese Term: 中间产品
Translation: 重新投入其它地区生产的半成品或物品。

Code: 14245
English Term: intermediate product
Definition: Product that has undergone a partial processing and is used as raw material in a successive productive step.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 中间产品
Translation: 经过局部处理的产品，是用于一个连续的生产步骤中的原料。

Code: 4412
English Term: intermittent noise
Definition: Noise occurring at regular or irregular intervals.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 间歇性噪音
Translation: 在规则或不规则时间间歇所产生的噪音。

Code: 4414
English Term: internal European market
Definition:
Chinese Term: 欧洲内部市场
Translation:

Code: 13325
English Term: internal migration
Definition: A population shift occurring within national or territorial boundaries, often characterized by persons seeking labor opportunities in more advantageous areas.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 内部迁移
Translation: 在国家内部或领土边界内发生的人口迁移，通常以人们寻求更有利的劳动机会为标志。

Code: 4415
English Term: internalisation of environmental costs
Definition:
Chinese Term: 环境成本内部化
Translation:

Code: 7788
English Term: internalisation of external costs
Definition: The process of getting those who produce goods or services with adverse effects on the environment or on society to incorporate a knowledge of possible negative repercussions into future economic decisions.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 环境成本内在化
Translation: 使哪些对生产对环境或社会有不良影响的商品或服务的纳入这样一类知识的过程：其未来的经济决策可能产生不利影响。

Code: 4417
English Term: international agreement
Definition: Cooperation in international efforts to support global environmental goals. Solutions to environmental problems such as trans-boundary airborne and waterborne pollution, ozone depletion and climate change require action by all responsible countries.&#10;(Source: WRES)
Chinese Term: 国际协同
Translation: 以支持全球环境为目的的国际合作。环境问题的解决办法，如跨边界空气和水环境问题的污染，臭氧层耗竭和气候变化等，要求所有责任国采取行动。

Code: 11031
English Term: international assistance
Definition: Economic, military, technical or financial aid or support given to nations or countries in need, often from other governments or international or intergovernmental organizations.&#10;(Source: INP)
Chinese Term: 国际援助
Translation: 给予有需要的国家或民族的经济、军事、技术和财政援助或支持，通常来自于其他政府或国际或政府间组织。

Code: 13143
English Term: international balance
Definition: A system in which nations or blocs of nations strive to maintain an equilibrium of power to prevent dominance by any single nation or to reduce conflict or the possibility of war.&#10;(Source: IPE)
Chinese Term: 国际平衡
Translation: 一个系统中，国家或国家集团力求保持一种平衡权力，以防止任何一个国家的霸权优势、减少冲突或战争的可能性。

Code: 4419
English Term: international competitiveness
Definition: The ability of firms to strive with rivals in the production and sale of commodities in worldwide markets.&#10;(Source: ODE / OED)
Chinese Term: 国际竞争力
Translation: 公司在生产和商品销售在全球市场范围内与竞争对手竞争的能力。

Code: 13304
English Term: international conflict
Definition: A controversy, disagreement, quarrel or warfare between or among two or more nations or countries, often requiring involvement or monitoring by other members of the global community.&#10;(Source: OED / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 国际冲突
Translation: 两个或两个以上国家间的争论、分歧、争吵或战争，通常需要国际社会其他成员的介入和监督。

Code: 4420
English Term: international convention
Definition: Treaties and other agreements of a contractual character between different countries or organizations of states creating legal rights and obligations between the parties.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 国际公约
Translation: 不同国家或国家机构之间制定的法律权利和义务的契约性的条约或协议。

Code: 4421
English Term: international co-operation
Definition: The collaboration between governments, businesses or individuals in which it is agreed to work together on similar objectives or strategies, particularly in research or in setting industrial standards.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 国际合作
Translation: 政府、企业或个人的合作，在为相似的目标或战略共同工作上达成一致，尤其是研究或制定行业标准方面。

Code: 4422
English Term: International Court of Justice
Definition: Judicial arm of the United Nations. It has jurisdiction to give advisory opinions on matters of law and treaty construction when requested by the General Assembly, Security Council or any other international agency authorised by the General Assembly to petition for such opinion. It has jurisdiction, also, to settle legal disputes between nations when voluntarily submitted to it.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 国际法院
Translation: 联合国的司法武装。当联合国大会、安全理事会或者其他联合国认证的国际机构申请建议意见时，其有为法律或条约制定提供意见的裁决权。同时，国际法院具有解决国家间法律争端的裁决权。

Code: 4423
English Term: international distribution
Definition: The worldwide allocating of resources or dispersing of goods.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 国际分销
Translation: 全球范围的资源分配或货物分发。

Code: 4424
English Term: international division of labour
Definition:
Chinese Term: 国际分工
Translation:

Code: 13266
English Term: international economic law
Definition: The recognized rules guiding the commercial relations of at least two sovereign states or private parties involved in cross-border transactions, including regulations for trade, finance and intellectual property.&#10;(Source: IEL)
Chinese Term: 国际经济法
Translation: 指导两个或两个以上主权国家或私人当事方在跨境交易——包括贸易、金融和知识产权法规时，商业关系中所公认的规则。

Code: 4427
English Term: international environmental relations
Definition: The political or diplomatic interaction or dealings between independent nations that pertain to ecological concerns.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 国际环境关系
Translation: 关于生态保护的政治或外交活动或独立国家之间的往来。

Code: 4429
English Term: international harmonisation
Definition: Harmonisation of the interrelationship of sovereign states by the application of general principles recognized by civilized nations.&#10;(Source: DICLAWa)
Chinese Term: 国际协调
Translation: 通过实施由文明国家所认可的一般原则来调协主权国家的相互关系。

Code: 4430
English Term: international law
Definition: The system of law regulating the interrelationship of sovereign states and their rights and duties with regard to one another.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 国际法
Translation: 调节主权国家间的相互关系以及其相互间的权利和义务的法律制度。

Code: 11046
English Term: International Monetary Fund
Definition: An international organization established in 1944, affiliated with the United Nations that acts as an international bank facilitating the exchange of national currencies and providing loans to member nations. It also evaluates the performance of the economies of the world's countries.&#10;(Source: KINGST)
Chinese Term: 国际货币基金会
Translation: 国际组织，成立于1944年，隶属于联合国，为促进国家货币汇率的一个国际银行，并为成员国提供银行贷款。同时其也评价世界各国的经济表现。

Code: 4434
English Term: international organisation
Definition: An association of independent states, whose representatives gather for the promotion of common interests including defense and trade.&#10;(Source: GT2)
Chinese Term: 国际组织
Translation: 独立的国家选派各自的代表为促进包括国防和贸易在内的共同利益而进行会晤的联盟。

Code: 4436
English Term: international politics
Definition: The use of methods, strategy, intrigue, decision making and power by governments and their representatives to achieve goals in policy making or governmental affairs in a worldwide or international arena.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 国际政治
Translation: 政府和他们的代表使用方法、策略、计谋、决策和权力来实现全球或国际范围内的方针制定或政府事务。

Code: 4438
English Term: international relations
Definition: The political or diplomatic interaction or dealings between independent nations.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 国际关系
Translation: 独立国家之间的政治、外交活动或往来。

Code: 4440
English Term: international river basin
Definition: Land area drained by a river and its tributaries whose waters are situated in and utilized by two or more countries.&#10;(Source: TOE / EWP)
Chinese Term: 国际流域
Translation: 坐落在两个或两个以上的国家同时水源水源被多国利用的河流以及其支流流经的地域。

Code: 4441
English Term: international safety
Definition: Freedom from danger or the quality of averting risk of harm to persons, property or the environment shared across one or more national boundaries; consequently, the combined efforts of more than one nation to achieve or preserve that state.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 国际安全
Translation: 避免遭受危险的自由、或避免人身、财产、共享的跨国环境的伤害的属性；从而需要多个国家间的共同努力以保护上述属性。

Code: 4442
English Term: international standardisation
Definition: The process of establishing or conforming something to a norm or measure that is recognized beyond the boundaries of a single country or nation.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 国际标准化
Translation: 建立或使某些东西以跨越单独地区或国家承认的准则或度量的过程。

Code: 4444
English Term: international trade
Definition: The flow of commodities and goods between nations.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 国际贸易
Translation: 国与国之间的商品和货物的流动。

Code: 14971
English Term: international transaction
Definition: Any agreement or act involving two or more countries in which business dealings, negotiations or other affairs are settled or concluded.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 国际事物
Translation: 任何涉及两个或两个以上国家的协议或行为，其中规定了贸易往来、谈判或其他事务。

Code: 4448
English Term: international watercourse
Definition: Portions of a geographical area which constitutes a hydrogeological unit as the catchment area for a single river which are under the jurisdiction of two or more countries.&#10;(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term: 国际水道
Translation: 某个地理区域中的构成一个水文地质单元的部分，以其作为由两个或更多的国家管辖的某条河流的集水区。

Code: 4432
English Term: internationally important ecosystem
Definition: Ecosystems whose importance is recognised at international level and which are, in some cases, protected by international conventions.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 国际重要生态系统
Translation: 公认的重要性为国际标准的生态系统，同时在某些情况下，这些生态系统受到国际公约保护。

Code: 14862
English Term: Internet
Definition: A global consortium of local computer networks that uses the TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol) protocol to connect machines to each other, providing access to the World Wide Web, Gopher, electronic mail, remote login and file transfer.&#10;(Source: WON)
Chinese Term: 国际互联网
Translation: 由使用TCP / IP（传输控制协议/互联网协议）协议连接到其他机器的本地计算机网络构成的全球网络联盟，提供访问万维网、戈弗查询、电子邮件、远程登录和文件传输等服务。

Code: 14891
English Term: internet search service
Definition:
Chinese Term: The provision of special aid by library staff trained to query bibliographic or other information contained on the Internet, a large distributed electronic system, usually to meet the research needs of the library's clients.&#10;(Source: RHW /  LFS)
Translation: 互联网搜索服务由接受过训练的文库工作人员提供的特殊帮助，以查询网络上的某个条目或其它信息，是一个大型的分布式电子系统，通常用以满足文库使用者的搜索需求。

Code: 14859
English Term: internet service provider
Definition: A business or organization that supplies connections to a part of the Internet, often through telephone lines.&#10;(Source: TWI)
Chinese Term: 互联网服务提供商
Translation: 提供的连接到互联网某部分的企业或组织，这种连接通常通过电话线实现。

Code: 14925
English Term: Interpolation
Definition: A process used to estimate an intermediate value of one (dependent) variable which is a function of a second (independent) variable when values of the dependent variable corresponding to several discrete values of the independent variable are known.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 插值法
Translation: 评测一个变量（非独立）的中间值的过程，当非独立的变量对应某些相互独立的已知的变量时，该变量是另外一个变量（独立）的函数。

Code: 4451
English Term: interpretation method
Definition: Method employed in the assessment of the meaning and significance of data, results, facts, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 解释方法
Translation: 在评估数据、结果、事实等的意义和重要性方面使用的方法。

Code: 4454
English Term: intertidal zone
Definition: 1) The area between land and sea which is regularly exposed to the air by the tidal movement of the sea. Marine organisms that inhabit the intertidal zones have to adapt to periods of exposure to air and to the waves created by wind, which makes it the most physically demanding of the marine habitats. &#10;2) The shore zone between the highest and lowest tides.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT /  LBC)
Chinese Term: 潮间带
Translation: 1) 潮汐活动中经常曝露在空气中的海洋与陆地间的部分。栖息于潮间带的海洋生物需要适应曝露于空气的时间段，并且需要适应此时因风而起的海浪，这些成为了海洋生物最大的体能要求。&#10;2) 最高和最低潮汐之间的海岸域。

Code: 11043
English Term: intervention fund
Definition: Money or financial resources set aside to interpose or interfere in any business affair in order to affect an outcome.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 干预基金
Translation: 预留的用以干预或介入其他业务以产生影响的金钱或金融资源。

Code: 4455
English Term: intervention in nature and landscape
Definition: Stepping in or participating in problem solving efforts for troublesome or perplexing situations involving the natural world or scenery.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 自然景观干预
Translation: 致力于或参与涉及天然区域或景观的麻烦或困扰问题的解决。

Code: 78
English Term: intervention on land
Definition: Stepping in or participating in problem solving efforts for troublesome or perplexing situations involving ground areas or the earth's surface.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 干预土地
Translation: 致力于或参与涉及陆地地区或地球表面的麻烦或困扰问题的解决。

Code: 11763
English Term: Intoxication
Definition: The state of being poisoned; the condition produced by a poison which may be swallowed, inhaled, injected, or absorbed through the skin.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 中毒
Translation: 被有毒物质毒害的状态，可能是由吞食、吸入，注射，或通过皮肤吸收有毒物质产生的。

Code: 10660
English Term: introduction of animal species
Definition: Animals which have been translocated by human agency into lands or waters where they have not lived previously, at least during historic times. Such translocation of species always involves an element of risk if not of serious danger. Newly arrived species, depending on their interspecific relationships and characteristics, may act as or carry parasites or diseases, prey upon native organisms, display toxic reactions, or be highly competitive with or otherwise adversely affect native species and communities.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 动物物种引进
Translation: 被人类机构移位到所在地以前，至少有历史可查时期，没有存在于土地或水中的动物。这种物种移位总会涉及一定的风险，有时甚至于是严重危机。取决于所引进物种的种间关系和特点，他们可以作为或携带侵食本地生物的寄生虫或疾病，引起毒素反应，或者与本地物种相比具有高度竞争力，或以其他方式严重影响本地物种和群落。

Code: 10661
English Term: introduction of plant species
Definition: Plants which have been translocated by human agency into lands or waters where they have not lived previously, at least during historic times. Such translocation of species always involves an element of risk if not of serious danger. Newly arrived species may be highly competitive with or otherwise adversely affect native species and communities. Some may become a nuisance through sheer overabundance. They may become liable to rapid genetic changes in their new environment. Many harmful introductions have been made by persons unqualified to anticipate the often complex ecological interaction which may ensue. On the other hand many plants introduced into modified or degraded environments may be more useful than native species in controlling erosion or in performing other positive functions.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 植物物种引进
Translation: 被人类机构移位到所在地以前，至少有历史可查时期，没有存在过的土地或水中的植物。这种物种移位总会涉及一定的风险，有时甚至于是严重危机。与本地物种相比，新引进的物种可能具有高度竞争力，或者它们可能以其他方式严重影响本地物种和群落。在新环境中它们可能变得易于进行快速的基因突变。对可能随之发生的复杂的生态学反应，由于人类作出的预测不合格，已经做出了很多有害的引进。另一方面，许多被引入退化或改变过的环境中的植物可能会比本地植物在控制水土流失或发挥其他积极作用方面更有优势。

Code: 4466
English Term: inventory
Definition: A detailed list of articles, goods, property, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 清单
Translation: 用品、货物或财产等的详细列表。

Code: 4468
English Term: inventory of forest damage
Definition: Survey of a forest area to determine forest depletion. The aim of the inventory is to give an overview of the forest conditions. Especially should the inventory aim to detect any changes in the forest conditions, but it should also provide the distribution of the forest damages and find out any relation with site and stand conditions.&#10;(Source: DUNSTEa)
Chinese Term: 森林破坏细目
Translation: 对森林面积的勘测调查，以确定森林的退化。这项清单的目的是给出森林状况的概况，特别是其可用以检测森林状况的一些改变，其还应该提供森林退化的分布并找出任何与所处地域条件的关系。

Code: 4473
English Term: inversion
Definition: A reversal in the usual direction of a process, as in the change of density of water at 4° C.&#10;(Source: PITT)
Chinese Term: 反演
Translation: 惯常的发展方向的逆转，如在水在4°C时的密度变化。

Code: 4474
English Term: inversion layer
Definition: The atmosphere layer through which an inversion occurs.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 逆温层
Translation: 通过其发生反演的大气层。

Code: 4475
English Term: invertebrate
Definition: Any animal lacking a backbone, including all species not classified as vertebrates.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 无脊椎动物
Translation: 没有脊柱的动物，包括所有没有列入脊椎动物类的物种。

Code: 4478
English Term: investment
Definition: Any item of value purchased for profitable return, as income, interest or capital appreciation.&#10;(Source: IVW / RHW)
Chinese Term: 投资
Translation: 任何以赚取利润，例如收入、利息或资本增值，为目的而买入价值的活动项目。

Code: 4483
English Term: iodine
Definition: A nonmetallic halogen element; the poisonous, corrosive dark plates or granules are readily sublimed; insoluble in water, soluble in common solvents; used as germicide and antiseptic, in dyes, tinctures, and pharmaceuticals, in engraving lithography, and as a catalyst and analytical reagent.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 碘
Translation: 非金属卤素元素；有毒，有腐蚀性黑色片状或颗粒，易升华，不溶于水，溶于一般溶剂；在染料、酊剂、和药品、和雕刻印刷中作为杀菌剂和防腐剂，并可作为催化剂和分析试剂。

Code: 4493
English Term: ion
Definition: An electrically charged atom or group of atoms formed by the loss or gain of one or more electrons.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 离子
Translation: 带电原子或因丧失或获得一个或多个电子形成的原子组。

Code: 4485
English Term: ion exchange
Definition: The process in which ions are exchanged between a solution and an insoluble solid, usually a resin.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 离子交换
Translation: 离子在溶液和不溶性固体间的交换过程，不溶性固体通常为一种合成树脂。

Code: 4487
English Term: ion exchanger
Definition: A permanent insoluble material (usually a synthetic resin) which contains ions that will exchange reversibly with other ions in a surrounding solution. Both cation and anion exchangers are used in water conditioning. The volume of an ion exchanger is measured in cubic liters of exchanger after the exchanger bed has been backwashed and drained, and has settled into place.&#10;(Source: WQA)
Chinese Term: 离子交换器
Translation: 一种永久不溶性物质（通常是一种合成树脂），其中包含可以与周围溶液中另外的离子进行可逆交换的离子。阳离子和阴离子交换均采用水环境。一个离子交换器的容积在其交换床被冲洗、沥干、放置后使用立方分米/公升度量。

Code: 4491
English Term: ionising radiation
Definition: Radiation that is capable of energizing atoms sufficiently to remove electrons from them. In this state atoms become more reactive, so that ionizing radiation increases chemical activity and in this way produces biological effects, including effects that involve alterations induced in DNA. X-rays and gamma-rays are the only electromagnetic waves that cause ionization in biological material.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 电离放射线
Translation: 能够使原子充分通电并移除其电子的射线。在这种状态下原子的活性增强，因此电离射线可以增强化学反应性，通过这种方式可以产生生物效应，包括诱导DNA改变。X射线和伽玛射线是仅有的对生物材料造成电离的电磁波。

Code: 4492
English Term: ionosphere
Definition: A region of the earth's atmosphere, extending from about 60 to 1000 kilometers above the earth's surface, in which there is a high concentration of free electrons formed as a result of ionizing radiation entering the atmosphere from space.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 电离层
Translation: 地球的大气层区域，位于地球表面以上大约60至1000公里，其中有由于从太空进入大气的的电离辐射而形成的高浓度自由电子。

Code: 4498
English Term: iron
Definition: A malleable ductile silvery-white ferromagnetic metallic element occurring principally in haematite and magnetite. It is widely used for structural and engineering purposes.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 铁
Translation: 主要发生在赤铁矿和磁铁矿处的韧性的可延展的银白色铁磁性金属元素。它广泛用于建筑结构和工程中。

Code: 13098
English Term: iron and steel industry
Definition: Sector of the metallurgical industry dealing with the production of cast iron, steel and iron alloys. Emissions from these industries tend to settle quickly from the atmosphere and can lead to rising concentrations in the soil. The main raw material input to the production process is iron ore. Also recycled scrap is used.&#10;(Source: FLGISA /  DOBRIS)
Chinese Term: 钢铁工业
Translation: 涉及铸铁、炼钢和铁合金行业的生产的冶金工业领域。这些行业中排放的废弃物往往迅速进入大气，并可能导致土壤溶液浓度上升。投入到生产过程的主要原料是铁矿石，另外也使用回收的废料。

Code: 4501
English Term: iron industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the extraction and refinement of iron ore to produce cast iron, wrought iron and steel.&#10;(Source: RHW / ENC)
Chinese Term: 炼铁工业
Translation: 由一些致力于铁矿石开采和提炼以及从事生产铸铁、熟铁和钢的经济部门组成的经济领域。

Code: 13127
English Term: iron scrap
Definition: Waste pieces or disused articles of wrought iron (wrought-iron scrap) suitable for reworking for rolling or forging.
Chinese Term: 铁屑
Translation: 浪费或废弃的适用于轧制或锻造的锻造铁（熟铁屑）。

Code: 4503
English Term: ironwork industry
Definition: Industry for the production of iron articles.&#10;(Source: WEBSTEa)
Chinese Term: 铁制品工业
Translation: 为铁制品的生产服务的工业。

Code: 4504
English Term: irradiation
Definition: To subject to or treat with light or other electromagnetic radiation or with beams of particles.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 放射
Translation: 用光、或其他电磁射线、或粒子束进行处理。

Code: 11686
English Term: irreversibility of the phenomenon
Definition: That quality of a process that precludes a prior state from being attained again.&#10;(Source: MICHa)
Chinese Term: 不可逆转性
Translation: 一种过程特性，在该过程中不可再次回到已经执行过的某个过程状态。

Code: 4505
English Term: irrigation
Definition: 1) To supply land with water so that crops and plants will grow or grow stronger.&#10;(Source: CAMB /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 灌溉
Translation: 1) 为了使农作物生长或生长得更好，为土地提供水。

Code: 4507
English Term: irrigation canal
Definition: A permanent irrigation conduit constructed to convey water from the source of supply to one or more farms.&#10;(Source: NALMS)
Chinese Term: 灌溉渠
Translation: 一种为从供应源水到一个或多个农场输送水而建造的永久性灌溉渠道。

Code: 4509
English Term: irrigation farming
Definition: Farming based on the artificial distribution and application of water to arable land to initiate and maintain plant growth.&#10;(Source: GOODa)
Chinese Term: 灌溉农业
Translation: 建立在人工分配、使用水以种植和维持植物的生长基础上的农业

Code: 11232
English Term: irrigation system
Definition: A system of man-made channels for supplying water to land to allow plants to grow.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 灌溉系统
Translation: 一种为土地供应水以使植物生长的人为的渠道系统。

Code: 4514
English Term: island
Definition: A land mass, especially one smaller than a continent, entirely surrounded by water.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 岛
Translation: 一种陆地，尤指比大陆小、完全被水包围的一类陆地。

Code: 4515
English Term: island ecosystem
Definition: Unique but fragile and vulnerable ecosystems due to the fact that the evolution of their flora and fauna has taken place in relative isolation. Many remote islands have some of the most unique flora in the world; some have species of plants and animals that are not found anywhere else, which have evolved in a specialized way, sheltered from the fierce competition that species face on mainland.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 岛屿生态系统
Translation: 一种独特而脆弱的生态系统，原因是其植物群和动物群的演变是在相对隔离的地区进行的。许多偏远岛屿拥有世界上最独特植物；由于是以特殊方式进化的，无需经历大陆物种所面对的激烈竞争，有的植物物种或动物物种是其他任何地方都没有的。

Code: 11431
English Term: ISO standard
Definition: Documented agreements containing technical specifications or other precise criteria to be used consistently as rules, guidelines, or definitions of characteristics, to ensure that materials, products, processes and services are fit for their purpose.&#10;(Source: ISOCH)
Chinese Term: ISO标准
Translation: 包含技术规格或其他精确标准的有案可稽的协议，其用以作为由始至终的规则、指南或特征定义，以确保材料、产品、工艺和服务符合目标。

Code: 4519
English Term: isomer
Definition: 1) Two or more compounds having the same molecular formula, but a different arrangement of atoms within the molecule.&#10; 2) One of two or more chemical substances having the same elementary percentage composition and molecular weight but differing in structure, and therefore in properties; there are many ways in which such structural differences occur.&#10;(Source: CED /  MGH)
Chinese Term: 异构体
Translation: 1）两个或两个以上的化合物具有相同的分子式，但原子在分子内位置不同。&#10;2）两个或两个以上具有相同的基本化学组成和分子量的比例，但结构和性能不同的化学物质；结构不同的方式有多种。

Code: 4523
English Term: isotope
Definition: One or two or more atoms with the same atomic number that contain different numbers of neutrons.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 同位素
Translation: 一个或两个或多个具有相同原子序数却包含不同中子数的原子。

Code: 4524
English Term: ivory
Definition: The fine-grained creamy-white dentine forming the tusks of elephants, and the teeth or tusks of certain other large animals such as the walrus; it has long been esteemed for a wide variety of ornamental articles.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 象牙
Translation: 细粒度乳白色牙本质形成的大象的长牙，以及其他一些大型动物的牙齿或长牙，如海象象牙；一直以可成为各种装饰物品而著称。

Code: 4530
English Term: joint debtor
Definition: Persons united in a joint liability or indebtedness. Two or more persons jointly liable for the same debt.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 共同债务人
Translation: 共同承担一项责任或债务的人。两个或更多的人共同承担同一债务。

Code: 4531
English Term: joint implementation (Rio Conference)
Definition:
Chinese Term: 联合履约（里奥会议）
Translation:

Code: 11556
English Term: judgement (sentence)
Definition: The official and authentic decision of a court of justice upon the respective rights and claims of the parties to an action or suit therein litigated and submitted to its determination. The final decision of the court resolving the dispute and determining the rights and obligations of the parties. The law's last word in a judicial controversy, it being the final determination by a court of the rights of the parties upon matters submitted to it in an action or proceeding.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 判决
Translation: 对于已经提出申诉并服从其决议的某项起诉或某个案件中各自的权利和当事人的诉讼索赔，法院做出的官方的、有效的决定。法院的最终裁决解决纠纷、确定各方的权利和义务。作为司法争论的最后话语，是法庭上对于已经提交的诉讼事项有关各方权利的最后裁决。

Code: 4534
English Term: judicial assistance
Definition: A program sponsored or administered by a government to guide through and represent in court proceedings persons who are in financial need and cannot afford private counsel.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 司法协助
Translation: 一个由政府主办或管理的项目，用以指导和和代表在法庭诉讼活动中的经济困难、无法负担私人律师费用的人。

Code: 4535
English Term: judicial body
Definition: Any public organization or branch of government responsible for the administration of justice or the enforcement of laws.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 司法机构
Translation: 负责司法或法律实施的任何公共机构或政府部门。

Code: 10085
English Term: judicial system
Definition: Entire network of courts in a particular jurisdiction.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 司法系统
Translation: 在特定的管辖范围内的整个法院网络的系统。

Code: 4538
English Term: judiciary rule
Definition: Specific norms, regulations and precedents governing the conduct, procedure and arrangement of a judicial system, its various divisions and its officers.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 司法规则
Translation: 控制司法系统以及其各个部门和人员的方式、程序和安排的具体的规范、条例和案例。

Code: 10026
English Term: juridical act
Definition: Acts relating to the administration of justice.&#10;(Source: CURZON)
Chinese Term: 法律行为
Translation: 司法行政有关的行为。

Code: 4541
English Term: Jurisdiction
Definition: The power of a court to hear and decide a case or make a certain order.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 司法权
Translation: 法庭拥有的审理和裁决案件、或作出一定的命令的权利。

Code: 4543
English Term: jurisprudence
Definition: The science or philosophy of law.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 法理
Translation: 法律的科学或哲学。

Code: 11583
English Term: justice
Definition: The correct application of law as opposed to arbitrariness.&#10;(Source: CURZON)
Chinese Term: 正义
Translation: 法律的正确施行，而不是随意的。

Code: 4545
English Term: karst
Definition: 1) A German rendering of a Serbo-Croat term referring to the terrain created by limestone solution and characterized by a virtual absence of surface drainage, a series of surface hollows, depressions and fissures, collapse structures, and an extensive subterranean drainage network.&#10; 2) A type of topography that is formed on limestone, gypsum, and other rocks by dissolution, and that is characterized by sinkholes, caves, and underground drainage. Etymology: German, from the Yugoslavian territory Krs; type locality, a limestone plateau in the Dinaric Alps of northwestern Yugoslavia and northeastern Italy.&#10;(Source: WHIT /  BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 岩溶
Translation: 一个德国地域风味的塞尔维亚克罗地亚用语，指由石灰岩溶解创造的一种地形，其以假设的不存在地表排水系统、有一系列的表面凹地、凹陷和裂缝、崩塌结构以及遍布的地下排水系统为标志。&#10;一种地貌，由石灰岩、石膏和其它岩石的溶解形成，以溶洞、洞穴和地下排水为标志。词源：德语，来自南斯拉夫领土krs；此类型地区在南斯拉夫的西北部和意大利东北部的迪纳拉造山带阿尔卑斯山的石灰岩高原。

Code: 4550
English Term: kerosene
Definition: A thin oil distilled from petroleum or shale oil, used as a fuel for heating and cooking, in lamps, and as a denaturant for alcohol.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 煤油
Translation: 从原油或者页岩油中提炼出的劣质油，可用来作为取暖或做饭的燃料，可用于灯的燃料，并作为酒精的变性剂。

Code: 4566
English Term: labelling
Definition: Attaching a notice to a product or container bearing information concerning its contents, proper use, manufacturer and any cautions or hazards of use.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 贴标签
Translation: 为产品或容器附加一个通知，该通知承载产品或容器的主要内容、正确用法、制造商及任何警告或使用危险方面的信息。

Code: 4567
English Term: laboratory
Definition: A room or building with scientific equipment for doing scientific tests or for teaching science, or a place where chemicals or medicines are produced.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 实验室
Translation: 具有用以做科学试验或科学教育的科研设备的房间或建筑物，或者生产化学品或药品的地方。

Code: 4571
English Term: laboratory experiment
Definition: Tests or investigations carried out in a laboratory.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 实验室试验
Translation: 在实验室进行的试验或研究。

Code: 4573
English Term: laboratory research
Definition: Research carried out in a laboratory for testing chemical substances, growing tissues in cultures, or performing microbiological, biochemical, hematological, microscopical, immunological, parasitological tests, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 实验室研究
Translation: 在实验室进行的测试化学物质、组织增殖培养，或从事微生物学、生化学、血液学、显微镜学、免疫学、寄生物学的试验等。

Code: 4574
English Term: laboratory technique
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 实验室技术
Translation: 无需定义。

Code: 11782
English Term: laboratory test
Definition: Tests, examinations or evaluations performed in a laboratory.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 实验室测试
Translation: 在实验室进行的测试、考察或评估。

Code: 4575
English Term: laboratory waste
Definition: Discarded materials produced by analytical and research activities in a laboratory.&#10;(Source: ERG)
Chinese Term: 实验室废料
Translation: 在实验室进行的分析和研究活动产生的废弃材料。

Code: 4577
English Term: labour
Definition: One of the factors of production. It includes all the exertions - manual, physical or mental - by individuals, directed towards the production of wealth.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 劳动
Translation: 一个生产要素。它包括所有被用于财富生产的个体的投入——手工的、体力的或者脑力的。

Code: 13343
English Term: labour force
Definition:
Chinese Term: 劳动力
Translation:

Code: 4580
English Term: labour law
Definition: The branch of the legal system which lays down the rules governing employment relationships, trade union relations, and state intervention to provide protection against particular situations of need for citizens who are workers.&#10;(Source: NECTAR)
Chinese Term: 劳动法
Translation: 法律制度的一个分支，其制定了管理雇佣关系、工会关系、为保护工人防范特殊情况提供保护的国家干预方面的规则。

Code: 4581
English Term: labour market
Definition:
Chinese Term: 劳动力市场
Translation:

Code: 4584
English Term: labour relations
Definition: The dynamics or general state of the association between management and non-management employees in an enterprise, industry or nation, with special attention to the maintenance of agreements, collective bargaining and the status of unions.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 劳资关系
Translation: 企业、行业或国家中的管理层和非管理员工间关系的动态的或整体的状态，特别注重于协议的维护、集体谈判和工会的地位。

Code: 4586
English Term: lacquer
Definition: A material which contains a substantial quantity of a cellulose derivative, most commonly nitrocellulose but sometimes a cellulose ester, such as cellulose acetate or cellulose butyrate, or a cellulose ether such as ethyl cellulose; used to give a glossy finish, especially on brass and other bright metals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 漆
Translation: 一种材料，其中载有大量纤维素衍生物，最常见的硝基纤维，但有时是纤维素酯如醋酸纤维素或丁酸纤维素，或是纤维素醚如乙基纤维素；用于增加最后的光泽，尤其为铜和其它明亮的金属。

Code: 4589
English Term: lagoon
Definition: A body of water cut off from the open sea by coral reefs or sand bars.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 泻湖
Translation: 由珊瑚礁或沙洲水体从外海阻隔而来的一些水。

Code: 12289
English Term: lagooning
Definition: The process in which sunlight, bacterial action and oxygen cause self-purification in waste water, Usually taking place in a shallow pond, or system of such ponds.&#10;(Source: TOEa)
Chinese Term: 废水曝气
Translation: 阳光、细菌活动和氧气引起的在废水中的自然净化过程，通常在浅水池塘或池塘系统等地发生。

Code: 4594
English Term: lake
Definition: An enclosed body of water, usually but not necessarily fresh water, from which the sea is excluded.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 湖
Translation: 一个封闭的水体，通常是淡水但也有例外，不包括海水。

Code: 4590
English Term: lake basin
Definition: 1) The depression in the Earth's surface occupied or formerly occupied by a lake and containing its shore features. &#10;2) The area from which a lake receives drainage.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 湖盆
Translation: 1）地球表面的形成湖泊或曾经是湖泊的具有河岸地貌的洼地。&#10;2）湖泊获得其排水的地区。

Code: 4593
English Term: lake pollution
Definition: The direct or indirect human alteration of the biological, physical, chemical or radiological integrity of lake water, or a lake ecosystem.&#10;(Source: Landy)
Chinese Term: 湖泊污染
Translation: 人为的直接或间接的改变湖水或湖泊生态系统的生物、物理、化学或辐射完整性。

Code: 4597
English Term: lamp
Definition: A device that produces light, such as an electric lamp.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 灯
Translation: 一种产生光的设备，如电灯。

Code: 4599
English Term: land
Definition: A specified geographical tract of the Earth's surface including all its attributes, comprising its geology, superficial deposits, topography, hydrology, soils, flora and fauna, together with the results of past and present human activity, to the extent that these attributes exert a significant influence on the present and future land utilization.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 土地
Translation: 地球表面的一种特定的地带，包括其所有特性，这些特性涵盖其地质、表面沉积、地貌、水文、土壤、植物群和动物群、以及过去和现在人类活动的影响，在某种程度上，这些属性对目前和未来的土地利用有重要作用。

Code: 4600
English Term: land access
Definition: The permission or freedom to use, enter, approach or pass to and from a tract of land, which often consists of real estate property.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 地面通道
Translation: 使用、进入、通过某片土地的许可或自由，通常包括房地产权。

Code: 4602
English Term: land allotment
Definition: Procedure by which big land properties are divided in parcels of smaller size.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 土地分配
Translation: 一种程序，用以将大块的土地资产分成面积较小的部分。

Code: 4603
English Term: land and property register
Definition: The system of registering certain legal estates or interests in land. It describes the land and any additional rights incidental to it, such as rights of way over adjoining land.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 土地和财产登记
Translation: 用以登记土地的合法财产权和所有权的制度。它叙述了土地以及其附属的权益，例如在临近土地的路经权。

Code: 4607
English Term: land carrying capacity
Definition: The maximum extent to which ground or soil area may be exploited without degradation or depletion.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 土地承载能力
Translation: 在不造成土地退化或衰竭的前提下，土地或土壤使用的最大限度。

Code: 4609
English Term: land clearing
Definition: Removal of trees, undergrowth, etc. in preparation for ploughing, building, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 土地清理
Translation: 清除树木、灌木丛等，为耕作或建筑等做准备。

Code: 4610
English Term: land conservation
Definition: The care, preservation and re-use of solid areas of the earth's surface, especially soil regions valued as a natural resource or utilized as an agricultural resource.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 土地保护
Translation: 地球表面坚固地区的管理、保护和重利用，特别是作为天然资源和农业资源的土壤地区。

Code: 4611
English Term: land consolidation
Definition: Joining small plots of land together to form larger farms or large fields.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 土地整理
Translation: 把小块儿土地连在一起形成较大的农场或土地。

Code: 4612
English Term: land cover
Definition: Land cover is the physical state of the land surface. It is the combination of vegetation, soil, rock, water and human-made structures, which make up the earth's landscape. The land cover is the interface between the earth's crust and the atmosphere, influencing the exchange of energy and matter in the climatic system and biogeochemical cycles.&#10;(Source: BRS)
Chinese Term: 土地覆盖
Translation: 土地覆盖是指陆地表面的物理状态。它是植被、土壤、岩石、水和人工建筑的联合体，这些构成了地球的景观。土地覆盖，是地壳和大气之间的交界面，影响能源和物质在大气系统和生物地球化学循环间的交换。

Code: 4614
English Term: land development
Definition: Planning of infrastructures, services and industrial settlements in order to promote the socio-economic growth of certain land area.&#10;(Source: DIFIDa)
Chinese Term: 土地开发
Translation: 基础设施、服务业和工业区规划，以促进某些地区土地的社会经济发展。

Code: 2372
English Term: land disposal
Definition: The discharge, deposit or injection of any waste onto or into the soil or other land surfaces.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 陆上处置
Translation: 将废弃物排放、沉积或注入到土地内部或土地表面。

Code: 4615
English Term: land ecology
Definition: Study of the relationship between terrestrial organisms and their environment.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 土地生态
Translation: 陆地生物与环境之间的关系的研究。

Code: 4628
English Term: land forming
Definition:
Chinese Term: 土壤整治
Translation:

Code: 4632
English Term: land mammal
Definition:
Chinese Term: 陆地哺乳动物
Translation:

Code: 13102
English Term: land management and planning
Definition: Operations for preparing and controlling the implementation of plans for organizing human activities on land.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 土地管理和规划
Translation: 为准备和控制有关人类土地活动的计划的实施而制定的措施。

Code: 4633
English Term: land occupation
Definition: The use, settlement or possession of solid areas of the earth's surface.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 土地使用
Translation: 对地球表面陆地的使用、定居或占有。

Code: 4635
English Term: land planning
Definition: The activity of designing, organizing or preparing for the future use of solid areas of the earth's surface, especially regions valued for natural resources, utilized as agricultural resources or considered for human settlement.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 土地规划
Translation: 一项设计、组织或对地球表面的陆地的未来使用做准备的活动，特别是富含自然资源、被用作农业资源或用于人类居住的地区。

Code: 4636
English Term: land pollution
Definition: The presence of one or more contaminants upon or within an area of land, or its constituents.&#10;(Source: Landy)
Chinese Term: 土地污染
Translation: 一种或多种污染物存在于某地区或某地区范围内的现象。

Code: 4641
English Term: land reclamation
Definition: Making land capable of more intensive use by changing its general character, as by drainage of excessively wet land; irrigation of arid or semiarid land; or recovery of submerged land from seas, lakes and rivers.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 土地开垦
Translation: 通过改变土地的整体特征，如对过分湿地的排水、干旱半干旱土地的灌溉，或从重新开垦被海洋、湖泊和河流淹没的土地，使土地具有被进一步集约利用的能力。

Code: 4644
English Term: land register
Definition: A register or survey of land, containing information on the surface of properties, tenants' names, commencing with the earliest owners through successive ownership and partitions, and such like.&#10;(Source: CED /  WESTS /  HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 土地登记
Translation: 土地登记或调查，其中载有关于房产权、住户的姓名的顶层信息，通过连续的所有权和分区等从最早的业主开始。

Code: 4646
English Term: land restoration
Definition: The treatment of any unusable land usually by filling with refuse or levelling until the land can be brought into productive use.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 土地恢复
Translation: 对不可用土地的治理，通常通过垃圾填补或平整等方式，直至其具有生产性使用价值。

Code: 12711
English Term: land restoration in mountain areas
Definition: Measures adopted to control erosion and degradation phenomena in the mountain regions caused by the loss of forest cover due to acid rain, uncontrolled forest cutting, winter skiing resorts construction, etc.&#10;(Source: DIZAMBa)
Chinese Term: 山区土地复垦
Translation: 为了控制由于酸雨造成的深林减少、过度的森林砍伐、冬季滑雪胜地建设等引起的山区土地流失和退化现象所采取的措施。

Code: 4666
English Term: land setup
Definition: The formulation of regional objectives, plans and programmes and the harmonization of the regional effects of sectorial planning.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 土地设置
Translation: 某一局部的目标、计划、方案以及对规划的局部效果的协调的规划。

Code: 13115
English Term: land tax
Definition: Property tax. A tax laid upon the legal or beneficial owner of real property, and apportioned upon the assessed value of his land.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 土地税
Translation: 财产税。法定或实益拥有人为其不动产缴纳的税务，同时该税务依赖于土地的评估价值。

Code: 4676
English Term: land transportation
Definition: Transport of persons and goods by a network of roads or railways.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 陆运
Translation: 由公路或铁路网负责的人员和货物运输。



Code: 4678
English Term: land use
Definition: The term land use deals with the spatial aspects of all human activities on the land and with the way in which the land surface is adapted, or could be adapted, to serve human needs.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 土地使用
Translation: 土地使用这一术语包含所有地表上的人类活动的空间和地表适应，或可能适用于人类需求的方式。

Code: 4680
English Term: land use classification
Definition: The arrangement of land units into a variety of categories based on the properties of the land or its suitability for a particular purpose. It has become an important tool in rural land-resource planning.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 土地利用分类
Translation: 基于土地的特性以及其适于的特殊用途，将土地分成多种类别的单元。已成为农村土地资源规划的重要工具。

Code: 11321
English Term: land use plan
Definition: The key element of a comprehensive plan; describes the recommended location and intensity of development for public and private land uses, such as residential, commercial, industrial, recreational and agricultural.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 土地用途计划
Translation: 一项全面计划的主要内容，描述了公共和私人土地使用的推荐位置和发展力度，例如住宅、商业、工业、娱乐和农业。

Code: 4682
English Term: land use planning
Definition: The interdisciplinary process of evaluating, organising, and controlling the present and the future development and use of lands and their resources in terms of their suitability on sustained yield basis. Includes an overall ecological evaluation in terms of specific kinds of uses as well as evaluations of social, economic, and physical contexts to the land concerned.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 土地利用规划
Translation: 根据永续收获基础的持续性，跨学科的评估、组织和控制土地资源的现状和未来发展及使用的过程。包括对有关土地的特定用途以及社会、经济、物理背景评估的整体生态评价。

Code: 11323
English Term: land use regime
Definition: Relation existing between the landowner and the tenant farmer who cultivates the land.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 土地使用制度
Translation: 土地所有者和耕作土地的租用者间存在的关系。

Code: 4686
English Term: land value
Definition: The monetary or material worth in commerce or trade of an area of ground considered as property.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 土地价值
Translation: 在商业或交易中，作为财产的某块土地的货币价值或实用价值。

Code: 14852
English Term: land-based activity
Definition:
Chinese Term: 陆上活动
Translation:

Code: 11646
English Term: land-based marine pollution
Definition:
Chinese Term: 基于陆地的海洋污染
Translation:

Code: 4621
English Term: landfill
Definition: The oldest method of waste disposal for the solid matter discarded in the domestic dustbin, along with the packaging material and paper from high street shops and offices. Landfill sites are usually disused quarries and gravel pits. When they were filled, previous practice was to cover them up with soil and forget about them. Housing estates have been built, often with disastrous consequences, on old landfill dumps. Waste burial has now become a serious technology and a potential source of energy. Landfill sites can be designed to be bioreactors, which deliberately produce methane, gas as a source of biofuel or alternative energy. Traditionally, waste tips remained exposed to air and aerobic microbes - those which thrive in air - in order to turn some of the waste into compost. However, open tips also encourage vermin, smell in hot weather and disfigure the landscape. In the 1960s, as a tidier and safer option, landfill operators began to seal each day's waste in a clay cell. While excluding vermin, the clay also excluded air. Decomposition relied on anaerobic microbes, which die in air. However, the process produced methane (natural gas), which was a safety hazard. The methane is now extracted by sinking a network of perforated pipes into the site.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 垃圾填埋法
Translation: 最原始的对于垃圾桶内固体废弃物的处置方法，包括处理从街头和办公室得到的包装材料和废纸。堆填区通常是废弃采石场和砂石场。当填充区充满了，以前的做法是将它们用沙子覆盖并弃之不顾。在以前的填充区上建房屋，通常伴有灾难性后果。燃烧废弃物已经成为一个重要的技术和潜在的能量来源，填充区可以设计为生物反应器，用来制造甲烷气体，可以作为生物燃料或替代能源。通常，垃圾暴露在空气和那些在空气中成长的好氧微生物中，以使废弃物降解。然而，开放的废弃物也滋生了害虫和热天时的气味以及肮脏不堪的视觉。在20世纪60年代，作为一个更整洁、更安全的选择，填埋场运营商开始将每一天的废弃物封在泥容器中，这样虽然没有害虫，也排除了难闻的气味，依靠在空气中会死去的厌氧微生物分解，然而在这个过程中产生了甲烷，是一个安全隐患；现在，甲烷被穿孔的管道所抽取。

Code: 8755
English Term: landfill base sealing
Definition: Sealing of a landfill with a relatively impermeable barrier designed to keep leachate inside. Liner materials include plastic and dense clay.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 垃圾填埋场密封
Translation: 用相对不可渗透的屏障物体将垃圾填埋场封闭，旨在保持渗滤液不外泄。屏障材料包括塑料和致密粘土。

Code: 4623
English Term: landfill covering
Definition: The protective shielding, consisting of soil or some other material, that encloses disposal sites for compacted, non-hazardous solid waste, or secures disposal sites for hazardous waste to minimize the chance of releasing hazardous substances into the environment.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 垃圾填埋场覆盖
Translation: 由土壤或其他物质组成的保护性屏障，用来将已经压缩过的、无害的固体废弃物进行覆盖，或保障处理有害废物的处置场所，以尽量减少将有害物质释放到环境中的几率。

Code: 4624
English Term: landfill degasification
Definition: Landfill gas is highly dangerous as methane is highly explosive; therefore it must be controlled at all operational landfill sites, whether by active or passive ventilation or both especially in the case of deep sites. There exist venting systems for shallow and deep sites respectively.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 垃圾填埋场脱气
Translation: 填埋气体是非常危险的，例如甲烷是极具爆炸性的，因此它必须控制在可控制的范围内，不管通过主动释放的还是被动排风、或在较深区域同时使用这两种方法。也指在浅层和深层分别存在排气系统。

Code: 4625
English Term: landfill gas
Definition: Landfill gas is generated in landfill sites by the anaerobic decomposition of domestic refuse (municipal solid waste). It consists of a mixture of gases and is colourless with an offensive odour due to the traces of organosulphur compounds. Aside for its unpleasantness, it is highly dangerous as methane is explosive in concentrations in air between 5 per cent, the Lower Explosive Limit (LEL), and the Upper Explosive Limit (UEL) of 15 per cent. Landfill gas must be controlled at all operational landfill sites, whether actively or passively vented or both especially in the case of deep sites.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 垃圾填埋气
Translation: 填埋气体是由垃圾填埋场的生活垃圾（市区固体废弃物）厌氧分解产生的。它是一种混合气体，无色，并由于有有机硫化合物的有臭味。除了其令人不愉快的味道等，这种气体是非常危险的，甲烷浓度在空气中爆炸的下爆炸极限是百分之五，上爆炸极限是百分之十五。垃圾填埋气体必须在堆填区的所有可控区域内予以控制，无论是其自动释放或被动地释放，以及在深埋场同时利用两种方法。

Code: 4626
English Term: landfill leachate
Definition: Liquid that has seeped through solid waste in a landfill and has extracted soluble dissolved or suspended materials in the process.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 垃圾渗滤液
Translation: 填埋场中的通过固体废弃物渗透出的液体，此过程中的滤液含有可萃取的可溶性溶剂或悬浮物。

Code: 4629
English Term: landform
Definition: Any physical, recognizable form or feature of the Earth's surface, having a characteristic shape and produced by natural causes; it includes major forms such as plane, plateau and mountain, and minor forms such as hill, valley, slope, esker, and dune. Taken together the landforms make up the surface configuration of the Earth's.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 地貌
Translation: 地球表面的任何物理的、可识别的形式或特点，其有独特的形状，由自然原因造成；包括诸如平原、高原和山地的主要形式，诸如山地、河谷、斜坡、蛇丘和沙丘的较低级形式。地貌与地形的两者共同构成了地表轮廓。

Code: 11334
English Term: land-management intervention area
Definition: Any expanse of land which requires a person or agency with authority to interpose or interfere in how it is used or administrated.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 土地管理干预领域
Translation: 对土地的扩展，需要有权干预或干涉土地如何使用或管理的人或机构。

Code: 4648
English Term: landscape
Definition: The traits, patterns, and structure of a specific geographic area, including its biological composition, its physical environment, and its anthropogenic or social patterns. An area where interacting ecosystems are grouped and repeated in similar form.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 景观
Translation: 特定地理区域的特点、模式和结构，包括它的生物组成、物理环境和其人类生活或社会模式。相互作用的生态系统以相似形式分组和重复的一种区域。

Code: 4649
English Term: landscape after mining
Definition: The process of mining disfigures the surface of the land, and in the absence of reclamation leads to permanent scars. The process spoils the vital topsoil, disrupts drainage patterns, destroys the productive capacity of agricultural and forest land and impairs their aesthetic and social value.&#10;(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term:
Translation: 开采后的地形损毁了地表的外形，并在缺乏矫正的情况下导致了永久性的损害痕迹。这一过程损坏了重要的表层土壤，干扰了排水模式，破坏了农业、森林和陆地的生产能力，并损害了它们的审美价值和社会价值。

Code: 4650
English Term: landscape alteration
Definition: Landscapes might change through time as a result of human activities or natural processes such as fires or natural disasters. Changes in landscape structure can be documented by using data from aerial photographs or satellite images, and new technologies, such as remote sensing and geographic information systems.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 地形改变
Translation: 由于一段时间的人类活动或自然过程，如火灾或自然灾害造成的地貌可能发生变化。地形结构的变化可以通过从空中拍摄的照片或卫星影像数据以及诸如遥感和地理信息系统的新技术得出。

Code: 4651
English Term: landscape architecture
Definition: The creation, development, and decorative planting of gardens, grounds, parks, and other outdoor spaces. Landscape gardening is used to enhance nature helping to create a natural setting for individual residences and buildings, and even towns, particularly where special approaches and central settings are required.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 景观建筑
Translation: 花园、场地、公园和其他户外空间的建设、发展和装饰性植物种植。园林是用来加强自然成分，帮助创造个人住宅和建筑物甚至城镇的自然环境，特别是需要特定的方法和集中规划的地方。

Code: 4652
English Term: landscape component
Definition: In visual assessment work, landscapes can be divided into four major elements. a) Form is the perceived mass or shape of an object that appears unified, and which provides a consciousness of its distinction and relation of a whole to the component parts. b) Line is the real or imagined path, border, boundary, or intersection of two planes, such as a silhouette, that the eye follows when perceiving abrupt differences in form, colour or texture. c) Colour is a visual perception that enables the eye to differenciate otherwise identical objects based on the wavelengths of reflected light. d) Texture is the visual feel of a landscape.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 景观组成部分
Translation: 在视觉评估工作中，景观可分为四个主要因素。 一）形状，指可感知的某物体的质量或外形的统一的外观，同时其提供了物体作为一个整体与其他组成部分的区别与联系方面的意识。二）线，是真正的或想象中的路径、边缘、界线、或两个平面的交界，正如眼睛突然感知的差异、颜色或纹理的轮廓。三）颜色，是一种视觉感知，以眼睛对反射光波长的区分为基础，来区分物体的不同处或分辨不同的对象。四）纹理是对景观的视觉感受。

Code: 4653
English Term: landscape conservation
Definition: The safeguarding, for public enjoyment, of landscape and of opportunities for outdoor recreation, tourism and similar activities; the concept includes the preservation and enhancement not only of what has been inherited but the provision of new amenities and facilities.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 景观保护
Translation: 为公众享用的景观和户外休闲、旅游以及类似活动的场合提供的保护措施；此概念不仅包括已有的设施的维护和促进而且包括新的设施和场所的提供。

Code: 4654
English Term: landscape conservation policy
Definition:
Chinese Term: 景观保护政策
Translation:

Code: 4662
English Term: landscape consumption
Definition: Using parts of landscape in a way that heavily modifies its features.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 景观消耗
Translation: 以一种大量修改其特点的方式对部分景观的使用。

Code: 4657
English Term: landscape ecology
Definition: The study of landscapes taking account of the ecology of their biological populations. The subjects thus embraces geomorphology and ecology and is applied to the design and architecture of landscapes.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 景观生态学
Translation: 利用生物种群生态学对景观的研究。这样的主题涵盖地形学和生态学，并被应用于景观的设计和结构设计。

Code: 4658
English Term: landscape management
Definition: Measures aiming at preserving landscape or controlling its transformations caused by anthropic activities or natural events.&#10;(Source: DIFID)
Chinese Term: 景观管理
Translation: 以景观保护或控制由人类活动或自然事件造成其改变为目标的措施。

Code: 4659
English Term: landscape planning
Definition: The aspect of the land use planning process that deals with physical, biological, aesthetic, cultural, and historical values and with the relationships and planning between these values, land uses, and the environment.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 景观规划
Translation: 在土地使用方面的规划过程，涉及物理、生物、审美、文化和历史价值以及这些值之间的关系，涉及土地使用和环境。

Code: 4660
English Term: landscape protection
Definition: Elaboration and implementation of strategies and measures for the conservation, preservation, suitable use, and renewal of natural resources and nature or man-made components of landscape, in particular wildlife and natural systems of various standing.&#10;(Source: MOSGOV)
Chinese Term: 景观保护
Translation: 有关保护、保存、合理使用、以及对自然资源和自然或人为的景观组成部分的重建的详尽阐述和战略及措施实施，特别是对各种野生动物和自然系统。

Code: 4661
English Term: landscape protection area
Definition: Area where landscape is protected for its particular features in order to maintain its role in contributing to the wider enjoyment of the countryside.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 景观保护区
Translation: 其景观的特有性质被保护的地区，以保持其在促进广泛乡野乐趣的作用。

Code: 4663
English Term: landscape utilisation
Definition: Using landscape or parts of it for tourism, sports, or agriculture.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 景观利用
Translation: 将全部或部分景观用于旅游、运动或农业。

Code: 4668
English Term: landslide
Definition: Mass-movement landforms and processes involving the downslope transport, under gravitationary influence of soil and rock material en masse.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 滑坡
Translation: 在地心吸引力影响下的大量土壤和岩石材料产生的地貌的大规模变动和涉及下坡搬运的过程。

Code: 4691
English Term: large combustion plant
Definition: Any sizable building which relies on machinery that converts energy released from the rapid burning of a fuel-air mixture into mechanical energy.&#10;(Source: PMA)
Chinese Term: 大型燃烧厂
Translation: 依赖于将燃料与空气混合物迅速燃烧释放的机械能转换为化学能的能量转换机器的大型建筑物。

Code: 4698
English Term: laser
Definition: Acronym for Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation; a device that produces a powerful, highly directional, monochromatic, coherent beam of light. Laser consist of a transparent cylinder with a reflecting surface at one end and a partially reflecting surface at the other. Light waves are reflected back and forth, some of them emerging at the partially reflecting end. The light source may be a ruby, whose chromium atoms are excited by a flash lamp so that they emit pulses of highly coherent light, or a mixture of inert gases that produce a continuos beam, or a cube of treated gallium arsenide which emits infrared radiation when an electric current passes through it.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 轻型激光器构成
Translation: 受激发射辐射引起的扩增；一种产生一个强大的、高度定向、单色相干光束的装置。激光器 包含一个透明的圆柱管，其一端是一个反射面，另一端是一个部分反射面。光波来回反射，其中有些光波在部分反射面端出现。光源可以是红宝石，其铬原子是由脉冲激发，使其产生高度相干光；或由惰性气体混合物激发产生一个连续光束；或由经过处理的砷化镓立方体通电时发射出红外射线。

Code: 14936
English Term: latitude
Definition: An angular distance in degrees north or south of the equator (latitude 0°), equal to the angle subtended at the centre of the globe by the meridian between the equator and the point in question.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 纬度
Translation: 以度数衡量的赤道（纬度0 °）以南或以北的角距离，某点的维度相当于经由该点的经线与赤道线的交点以及改点形成的地心角。

Code: 4702
English Term: laundering
Definition: The act of washing and ironing clothes, linen, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 洗烫
Translation: 洗涤和熨烫衣服、床单等行为。

Code: 11499
English Term: law (corpus of rules)
Definition: A body of rules of action or conduct prescribed by controlling authority, and having binding legal force.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 法规（规章条例的汇编）
Translation: 权利机构规定的一组行动和行为的规则，其具有法律约束力。

Code: 4707
English Term: law (individual)
Definition: One of the rules making up the body of law.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 法规（单独的）
Translation: 组成的法律体系的其中的一个规则。

Code: 4719
English Term: law (science)
Definition: Complex of rules fixed by law or custom which regulate social relations.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 法规（科学）
Translation: 由法律或调节社会关系的习俗确定的复杂的规则。

Code: 4708
English Term: law amendment
Definition: An alteration of or addition to any statute with legal force that, if approved by the appropriate legislative authority, supersedes the original statute.&#10;(Source: LLL)
Chinese Term: 法律修正案
Translation: 对具有法律效力的章程的改动或增补，如果被适当的立法机关核准通过，则用以取代原来的章程。

Code: 10084
English Term: law branch
Definition: A subdivision of the body of principles and regulations established by a government or other authority, generally defined by its scope or application.&#10;(Source: BLD / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 法律分支
Translation: 由政府或其它权利机构所制定的原则和规定的一部分，通常也规定了其适用范围。

Code: 11508
English Term: law draft
Definition: The form in which proposed statutes, resolutions or special acts are introduced into a legislative body, before they are enacted or passed.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 法律草案
Translation: 提出的章程、决议或特殊行为被提交到立法机构，且在其颁布或通过前的状态。

Code: 4710
English Term: law enforcement
Definition: Any variety of activities associated with promoting compliance and obedience to the binding rules of a state, especially the prevention, investigation, apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of violating those rules.&#10;(Source: BLD / LLL)
Chinese Term: 执法
Translation: 任何与促进、遵守和服从国家的约束性规则关的各种活动，特别是预防、调查、逮捕或拘留涉嫌违反或已违反这些规则的个人。

Code: 13274
English Term: law relating to prisons
Definition: Binding rules and regulations pertaining to the construction, use and operation of jails, penitentiaries and other places of legal confinement and punishment.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 监狱法
Translation: 与建设、使用和运营拘留所、监狱和其他行驶法律约束及惩罚地区相关的具有约束力的规则和规章。

Code: 4722
English Term: leaching
Definition: 1) The process of separating a liquid from a solid (as in waste liquid by percolation into the surrounding soil. &#10;2) Extraction of soluble components of a solid mixture by percolating a solvent through it.&#10; 3) To lose or cause to lose soluble substances by the action of a percolating liquid.&#10;(Source: HARRIS /  DICCHE /  CED)
Chinese Term: 滤取
Translation: 1）从固体（如废液渗透到周围土壤）中分离液体的过程。&#10;2）通过使用溶剂溶解，从固体混合物中提取可溶性成分。&#10;3）通过滤掉溶液失去或使失去可溶性物质。

Code: 4723
English Term: lead
Definition: A heavy toxic bluish-white metallic element that is highly malleable; occurs principally as galena and is used in alloys, accumulators, cable sheaths, paints, and as a radiation shield.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 铅
Translation: 有毒蓝白色重金属元素，具有高度可塑性；主要出现于方铅矿中，作为合金、蓄电池、电缆护套、涂料和作为辐射屏蔽使用。

Code: 4724
English Term: lead compound
Definition: Lead compounds are present as gasoline additives, in paint, ceramic products, roofing, caulking, electrical applications, tubes, or containers. Lead exposure may be due to air, water, food, or soil. Lead in the air is primarily due to lead-based fuels and the combustion of solid waste, coal, oils, and emissions from alkyl lead manufacturers, wind blown dust volcanoes, the burning of lead-painted surfaces, and cigarette smoke. Lead in drinking water comes from leaching from lead pipes, connectors, and solder in both the distribution system and household plumbing.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 铅化合物
Translation: 铅化合物被适用于汽油添加剂、油漆、陶瓷制品、屋顶材料、嵌缝、电气应用、管道、容器等。铅的出现可能决定于空气、水、粮食或土壤。空气中的铅主要是由于含铅的燃料和固体废弃物、煤、油燃烧、烷基铅制造厂的排放、风吹起的火山灰，涂有铅的表面的燃烧、以及香烟烟雾。饮用水中的铅是来自铅管、连接器浸出，以及分配系统和家庭装修中的管道焊接。

Code: 4725
English Term: lead contamination
Definition: The presence and release into the air, water and soil, of lead, a toxic metal used in plumbing, gasoline and lead-acid batteries.&#10;(Source: FFD / EEN)
Chinese Term: 铅污染
Translation: 铅作为有毒金属用于管道、汽油及铅酸电池引起的在空气、水和土壤中存在或泄漏。

Code: 4728
English Term: lead level in blood
Definition: A measure of the amount of lead or lead salts absorbed by the body as a possible sign of acute or chronic lead poisoning, which can affect the nervous, digestive or muscular systems.&#10;(Source: SMD / MED)
Chinese Term: 血液含铅量
Translation: 用于铅含量或机体铅盐吸收量的测量，作为急性或慢性铅中毒的一项合理的标志，铅中毒可影响神经系统、消化系统或肌肉系统。

Code: 4727
English Term: lead-in-petrol law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to reduce or eliminate the lead content in petroleum fuels used in vehicular and other engines that pollute the air with lead-carrying exhaust.&#10;(Source: GAS)
Chinese Term: 汽油含铅法
Translation: 由政府指定的一项或一组必须遵守的规则，以减少或消除用于车辆和其它引擎中使用石油燃料所排出的含铅气体产生的污染。

Code: 4730
English Term: leaf
Definition: The main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants, usually consisting of a flat green blade attached to the stem directly or by a stalk.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 叶
Translation: 高等植物光合作用和蒸发作用的主要器官，通常包括经由叶柄连接到树干的一片平整的绿色叶片。

Code: 4731
English Term: leakage
Definition: The accidental, uncontrolled discharge or seepage of liquids, gases and other substances to unintended and unwanted locations, frequently causing risks of damage or harm to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 泄漏
Translation: 液体、气体和其它有害物质偶然地、不受控制地向非意愿地区地排放或渗漏，经常造成人身、财产或环境的损害或伤害。

Code: 11611
English Term: lease
Definition: Any agreement which gives rise to relationship of landlord and tenant (real property) or lessor and lessee (real or personal property). Contract for exclusive possession of lands or tenements for determinate period. Contract for possession and profits of lands and tenements either for life, or for certain period of time, or during the pleasure of the parties.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 租赁
Translation: 引发地主与租客（不动产）或出租人以及承租人（不动产或个人财产）之间关系的协议。其规定在一定的时间内独家拥有的土地或住宅的合同；规定在一定的时间段内土地和住宅在生活以及各方面利益上的所有权及利润的合同。

Code: 4735
English Term: leather
Definition: The dressed or tanned hide of an animal, usually with the hair removed.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 皮革
Translation: 动物所本有的或鞣制的皮毛，通常除去其毛发。

Code: 4738
English Term: leather industry
Definition: Industry for the production of leather goods such as garments, bags, etc.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 皮革工业
Translation: 生产诸如服装、箱包之类的皮革货物的产业。

Code: 13342
English Term: leave on social grounds
Definition:
Chinese Term: 让社交场地开放
Translation:

Code: 4739
English Term: legal basis
Definition: The fundamental law or judicial precedent that warrants or supports a subsequent decision or action by any governmental, corporate or private entity.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 法律依据
Translation: 任何一个政府、企业或私人个体反对或者支持一项后续决定或行动所依据的基本法律或者判决先例。

Code: 13161
English Term: legal form of organisations
Definition: The type, structure or purpose of an institution as arranged, required and defined by local or national laws to determine the appropriate governmental regulations, privileges and tax status applicable to that institution.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 组织法律形式
Translation: 由地方或者国家法律所安排、要求和确定的一个机关的类型、结构以及目的，用以确定适用于该机构的政府法规、特权、税收情况。

Code: 13284
English Term: legal procedure
Definition: Term includes all proceedings authorised or sanctioned by law, and brought or instituted in a court of legal tribunal, for the acquiring of a right or the enforcement of a remedy.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 法定程序
Translation: 包含为保障权利或执行改进措施，通过法律被批准或认可的，以及在法院法庭上制定的所有事项。

Code: 13287
English Term: legal profession
Definition: A body of persons whose occupation is concerned with advising clients in matters of law, representing them in court or assisting them through the judicial process, including, in the first instance, lawyers and, by extension, judges, legal assistants and court employees.&#10;(Source: OCT / RHW)
Chinese Term: 法律界人士
Translation: 一类人士，其职业是为遇到法律纠纷的人提供建议，代表他们出席法庭或者帮助他们实施法律程序，包括在一审中的律师及作为的延伸的法官、法律助手和法院工作人员。

Code: 4743
English Term: legal regulation
Definition: Any order or rule issued by a government stipulating its procedures for the creation, execution or adjudication of laws.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 法律条例
Translation: 由政府颁布的、用以规定法律的制定、执行和修改的程序的任何一条规则或条令。

Code: 4744
English Term: legal remedy
Definition: The means by which a right is enforced or the violation of a right is prevented, redressed, or compensated.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 法律方面的补救
Translation: 权利的强制执行或者权利违反行为的预防、纠正、补偿的方法。

Code: 13288
English Term: legal system
Definition: The organization and network of courts and other institutions, procedures and customs, officers and other personnel concerned with interpretation and enforcement of a country's law or with advice and assistance in matters pertaining to those laws.&#10;(Source: OCT / RHW)
Chinese Term: 法律系统
Translation: 法庭和其它机构、程序和惯例、官员以及其它有关国家法律解释和执行的职员、或有关提供法律咨询和援助组成的组织和系统。

Code: 4746
English Term: legal text
Definition: The exact wording or language of a law or other document in conformity with the law or having the authority of law.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 版权文字
Translation: 关于法律方面的严谨的文档或语言，或者其他遵循法律或被法律授权的文档。

Code: 4741
English Term: legally protected right
Definition: A justifiable claim to have or obtain something or to act in a certain way, which is supported by law and is covered or shielded from the danger of being revoked or repealed.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 法定权利
Translation: 合法的声明：拥有或者获得某物、以某种方式行事，其受到法律的保护、覆盖或遮蔽以避免被吊销或者撤销的危险。

Code: 4749
English Term: legislation
Definition: The act or process of making laws.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 立法
Translation: 制定法律的行为或过程。

Code: 4752
English Term: legislation on pollution
Definition: Rules concerning the limits of pollutant emissions.&#10;(Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term: 污染法
Translation: 有关限制污染物排放的法律。&#10;(源自: DIZAMB)

Code: 4759
English Term: legislative authority
Definition: The power of a deliberative assembly of persons or delegates to bring a bill, resolution or special act to an official, legally binding status.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 立法权
Translation: 由公民或者代表组成的代表大会使法案、决议或特别法成为正式的、具有法律约束力的权力。

Code: 4760
English Term: legislative competence
Definition: The skill, knowledge, qualification, capacity or authority to make, give or enact rules with binding force upon a population or jurisdiction.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 立法权限
Translation: 在一定人群或区域范围内，制定或实施具有约束力的法令的技能、知识、资格、能力或权威性。

Code: 4762
English Term: legislative information
Definition: Knowledge or a service providing knowledge concerning actual and proposed laws, including approval status, the history and content of deliberative proceedings and the specific language of those laws.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 立法信息
Translation: 有关现行及拟制的法律——包括正处审批状态、历史和审议程序的具体内容以及这些法律特有的语言——方面的知识或者知识提供服务。

Code: 13290
English Term: legislative procedure
Definition: Any prescribed step or manner of proceeding that a law making body takes in proposing laws, resolutions or special acts before they can be enacted or passed.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 立法程序
Translation: 在立法机构拟制法律、决议或特别法规生效或通过前，用以推动它们实施的程序或步骤。

Code: 14208
English Term: legislative process
Definition: The entire course of action necessary to bring a law, resolution or special act to an authoritative, legally binding status.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 立法进程
Translation: 使法律、决议或特别条例具有权威性和法律约束力的整个必要的过程。

Code: 4764
English Term: legislature
Definition: The department, assembly, or body of persons that makes statutory laws for a state or nation.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 立法机构
Translation: 为州或国家制定法律的部门、代表大会或公民代表。

Code: 4767
English Term: leisure activity
Definition: Sports and recreational activities carried out in the time free from work or other duties.
Chinese Term: 休闲活动
Translation: 在下班时间和其它工作外的自由时间进行的运动和休养活动。

Code: 10847
English Term: leisure centre
Definition: A building containing a swimming pool and a large room or other places where you can play sports.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 娱乐中心
Translation: 里面有一个游泳池和大房间或者其它可以进行运动的建筑物。

Code: 4771
English Term: leisure time
Definition: Time free from work or other duties; spare time.
Chinese Term: 休闲时间
Translation: 工作或者其它任务外的自由时间或空闲时间。

Code: 4777
English Term: lepidopteran
Definition: A large order of scaly-winged insects, including the butterflies, skippers, and moths; adults are characterized by two pairs of membranous wings and sucking mouthparts, featuring a prominent, coiled proboscis.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鳞翅目
Translation: 一大列鳞翅昆虫，包括蝴蝶、水蝇和飞蛾；成虫有以下特征：有两对膜翅和以盘旋长鼻为突出特征的刺吸式口器。

Code: 11103
English Term: less developed country
Definition: One of the world's poorest nations, typically small in area and population, with low per capita incomes, literacy levels and medical standards, subsistence agriculture and a lack of exploitable minerals and competitive industries.&#10;(Source: UIA)
Chinese Term: 不发达国家
Translation: 世界上最贫穷国家之一，显著特征是人口少、国土面积小、人均收入及文化水平医疗水平低、温饱型农业、缺少可开采的矿产和有竞争力的工业。

Code: 4782
English Term: leukaemia
Definition: A progressive, malignant disease of the blood forming organs; a distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 白血病
Translation: 一种不断发展的恶性的血液生成器官疾病，一种不正常的白细胞的增殖和生长以及其在血液和骨髓中的初期形式。

Code: 13307
English Term: level of education
Definition: A position along a scale of increasingly advanced training marking the degree or grade of instruction either obtained by an individual, offered by a some entity or necessary for a particular job or task.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 教育水平
Translation: 标志着受教育的学位或等级的，在越来越先进的培训方面的情况，由个人取得、或者由某个实体提供、或为某个特定的工作或任务所必须。

Code: 4784
English Term: levy
Definition: A ratable portion of the produce of the property and labor of the individual citizens, taken by the nation, in the exercise of its sovereign rights, for the support of government, for the administration of the laws, and as the means for continuing in operation the various legitimate functions of the state.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 税款
Translation: 应课税的那部分财产和城镇居民个人劳力，将由国家通过行使征收，用于政府的维持、法律的执行，并成为国家持续运作其各项合法的国家职能的途径。

Code: 4785
English Term: lexicon
Definition: The vocabulary of a particular sphere of activity, region, social class or individual, or the total set of morphemes or meaningful units of a language and its words.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 词汇
Translation: 某一特定领域的活动、宗教、社会阶层或个体的词汇，或一种语言和其词汇的单个或者整体的词素或意义单元。

Code: 4787
English Term: liability
Definition: Subjection to a legal obligation. Liability is civil or criminal according to whether it is enforced by the civil or criminal courts.&#10;(Source: JCU)
Chinese Term: 责任
Translation: 服从法律规定的义务。责任是民事责任还是刑事责任取决于它是由民事还是刑事强制执行。

Code: 4788
English Term: liability for marine accidents
Definition: Subjection to a legal obligation, such as financial recompense or ecological reparations, for any harm or damage inflicted on persons, property or the environment in the course of commercial or recreational activity in, on or near a sea.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 海上事故责任
Translation: 服从法定的义务，诸如在近海或者海上区域进行商业或者生产活动中，对人类、财产、环境造成破坏的，要承担经济赔偿或者生态补偿。

Code: 4789
English Term: liability for nuclear damages
Definition: Subjection to a legal obligation, such as financial recompense or ecological reparations, for any harm or damage inflicted on persons, property or the environment during the production, use or transport of radioactive materials used as an energy source or in weaponry.&#10;(Source: BLD / MHD)
Chinese Term: 核破坏责任
Translation: 服从法定的义务，诸如作为能源或武器，在生产、使用、运输放射性物质过程中对人身财产及坏境造成破坏的，要承担相应的经济补偿和生态补偿。

Code: 4790
English Term: liability legislation
Definition: A law or body of laws enacted that pertains to or establishes an obligation, debt or responsibility for loss, penalty, evil, expense or burden.&#10;(Source: BLD / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 法定义务
Translation: 法律或者法律机构颁布的涉及到或者确立的责任、债务或者对损失、罚款、邪恶或者负担应承担的责任。

Code: 4793
English Term: library
Definition: Place where books and other literary materials are kept.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 图书馆
Translation: 储藏图书和其它文学材料的地方。

Code: 14884
English Term: library service
Definition: The duties of an establishment, or a public institution, charged with the care and organizing of a collection of printed and other materials, and the duty of interpreting such materials to meet the informational, cultural, educational, recreational or research needs of its clients.&#10;(Source: OED /  LFS)
Chinese Term: 图书馆服务
Translation: 一种大型机构或社会公共机构的职责，承担收集印刷出版物和其它材料的责任，以及了解这样的材料并满足客户在信息、文化、教育、生产及研究方面的需求的责任。

Code: 4796
English Term: licencing
Definition: Any process of granting and certifying legal or administrative permission to a person or organization to pursue some occupation or to perform some activity or business.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 许可证交易
Translation: 批准和证明某个人或者组织来从事某些职业或者参加某些活动及业务的合法性或行政许 可。

Code: 4798
English Term: licencing obligation
Definition: Obligation to obtain a permit to pursue an occupation or to carry on some business.&#10;(Source: WESTSa)
Chinese Term: 通行证义务
Translation: 从事某项职业或进行某种业务时要承担的拥有相关的通行证的义务。

Code: 4797
English Term: licencing procedure
Definition: Procedures performed by administrative agencies in conjunction with issuance of various types of licences.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 许可程序
Translation: 行政机构根据各种许可的类型发行许可的程序。

Code: 4799
English Term: lichen
Definition: Composite organisms formed by the symbiosis between species of fungi and an algae. They are either crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks, stone walls, roofs or garden paths. Because they have no actual roots they get their sustenance from the atmosphere and rainwater. Lichens play an important role in the detection and monitoring of pollution, especially sulphur dioxide, as they are highly sensitive to pollution and different species disappear if pollution reaches specific levels.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 地衣
Translation: 在真菌和藻类中形成的共生的复合生物。它们或者是像外壳一样成片的附着或者浓密的生长在树干、石墙、屋顶或者公园小径。它们因为没有真正的根，需要从空气和雨水中汲取营养。地衣在保护和监测环境污染方面有很重要的作用，特别是对二氧化硫的侦测；因为它们对污染高度敏感，如果周围的污染物达到一定水平，不同种类的地衣就会消失。

Code: 4802
English Term: life cycle
Definition: The phases, changes, or stages through which an organism passes throughout its lifetime.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 生命周期
Translation: 生物体在其一生中经历的阶段、变更或时期。

Code: 4805
English Term: life science
Definition: A science based on living organisms collectively.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 生命科学
Translation: 一种基于所有生物的科学。

Code: 7018
English Term: life-cycle management
Definition: Management of all the stages involved in the life of a product such as raw materials acquisition, manufacturing, distribution and retail, use and re-use and maintenance, recycling and waste management, in order to create less environmentally harmful products.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 生产周期管理
Translation: 对产品在生命周期中涉及的所有阶段的管理，如原材料采购、制造、分销及零售、使用和再利用、维护、废物管理和回收，以减少环境方面有害的产品。

Code: 4808
English Term: lifestyle
Definition: The particular attitudes, habits or behaviour associated with an individual or group.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 生活方式
Translation: 与个人或团体有关的特定的态度、习惯或行为。

Code: 4810
English Term: light
Definition: Electromagnetic radiation that is capable of causing a visual sensation.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 光
Translation: 能够造成视觉感应的电磁波。

Code: 4814
English Term: lighting
Definition: The supply of illumination in streets or dwellings.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 照明
Translation: 在街道或住宅处供应光源。

Code: 4818
English Term: lignite
Definition: Coal of relatively recent origin consisting of accumulated layers of partially decomposed vegetation, intermediate between peat and bituminous coal; often contains patterns from the wood from which it formed.&#10;(Source: MGH /  CED /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 褐煤
Translation: 相对近期起源由不完全腐烂的植被形成的煤矿，位于泥炭矿和烟煤矿之间，通形含有树木的原型。

Code: 4819
English Term: lignite mining
Definition: Extraction of brown coal from natural deposits; lignite is a brownish-black solid fuel in the second stage in the development of coal. It has a little over half the heating value of bituminous or anthracite coal.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 褐煤开采
Translation: 对天然褐煤矿的开采。褐煤是一种棕黑色的固体燃料，是在煤形成的第二个阶段中产生的。比有烟煤或无烟煤的小一半以上的热值。

Code: 4820
English Term: lime
Definition: Any of various mineral and industrial forms of calcium oxide differing chiefly in water content and percentage of constituent such as silica, alumina and iron.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 石灰
Translation: 氧化钙的不同种类的无机的和工业的形式主要在水含量，以及结构成分如二氧化硅、氧化铝和铁的百分比例方面不同。

Code: 4823
English Term: limestone
Definition: A sedimentary rock consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate, primarily in the form of the mineral calcite and with or without magnesium carbonate. Limestones are formed by either organic or inorganic processes, and may be detrital, chemical, oolitic, earthy, crystalline, or recrystallized; many are highly fossiliferous and clearly represent ancient shell banks or coral reefs.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 石灰石
Translation: 主要由以方解石形式存在的碳酸钙组成的沉积岩，它含或不含碳酸镁。石灰石由有机或无机过程形成，可能是由岩屑、化学变化、鲕粒岩、泥土、结晶或重结晶形成的，有些是非常古老的化石，可以清楚地重现远古的贝壳或珊瑚礁。

Code: 4828
English Term: limit value
Definition: A workplace exposure criterion or standard that determines if a facility or building has a concentration of a substance to which most workers can be exposed without harmful or adverse effects.&#10;(Source: HEG)
Chinese Term: 有限值
Translation: 极限值 工作场所公示的标准或规范，以确定某设施或建筑物中含某物质的浓度是否可以使大多数在其中工作的工人可以不受危害或对其产生不利影响。

Code: 4830
English Term: limnology
Definition: The study of bodies of fresh water with reference to their plant and animal life, physical properties, geographical features, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 湖沼学
Translation: 按有关淡水的植物和动物、物理性质、地理特征等对淡水进行的研究。

Code: 14920
English Term: line
Definition: Term used in GIS technologies in the vector type of internal data organization: spatial data are divided into point, line and polygon types. In most cases, point entities (nodes) are specified directly as coordinate pairs, with lines (arcs or edges) represented as chains of points. Regions are similarly defined in terms of the lines which form their boundaries. Some vector GIS store information in the form of points, line segments and point pairs; others maintain closed lists of points defining polygon regions. Vector structures are especially suited to storing definitions of spatial objects for which sharp boundaries exist or can be imposed.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 线
Translation: 用于地理信息系统技术中矢量类内部数据的组织：空间数据被划分为点、线、多边形类型。在大多数情况下，点实体（节点）直接指定为坐标对，线（弧或边），表示为点的链接。某一区域由组成其边界的线条定义。矢量地理信息系统以点、线段和点对的形式存储信息，其它使用一系列封闭的点定义多边形区域。由于尖锐边界的存在或被强加，向量结构特别适合于存储空间物体的定义信息。

Code: 4835
English Term: line source
Definition: Line source means a one-dimensional source. An example of a line source is the particular emissions from a dirt road.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 线源
Translation: 指一维源。关于线源的一个例子是从一条污物排放道路进行特定的污物排放。

Code: 4832
English Term: linear source of sound
Definition: Point noise sources placed one after the other one as, for instance, in a row of cars moving on a road.&#10;(Source: VALAMB)
Chinese Term: 线性声源
Translation: 像在道路上行驶的一列汽车一样顺序放置的点噪声源。

Code: 4834
English Term: liner material
Definition: A layer of synthetic or natural materials, on the sides of or beneath a landfill, landfill cell or surface impoundment, that restricts the downward or lateral escape of liquids carrying leachate into the surrounding environment.&#10;(Source: ERG / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 衬垫材料
Translation: 一层天然或人造材料，位于垃圾填埋场、垃圾填埋场单元或地面存储的四周或下方，这限制了沥出的液体向下或向四周渗透到周围的环境。

Code: 4838
English Term: lipid
Definition: One of a class of compounds which contain long-chain aliphatic hydrocarbons and their derivatives, such as fatty acids, alcohols, amines, amino alcohols, and aldehydes; includes waxes, fats, and derived compounds.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 油脂
Translation: 一种化合物，含有长链脂肪族烃及其衍生物，如脂肪酸、醇、胺、氨基醇、醛。其包括蜡类、脂肪和衍生化合物。

Code: 4839
English Term: lipophilic substance
Definition: Substances having an affinity for lipids.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 脂类物质
Translation: 与脂类具有相似性的物质。

Code: 4840
English Term: liquefied gas
Definition: A gaseous compound or mixture converted to the liquid phase by cooling or compression; examples are liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), liquefied natural gas (LNG), liquid oxygen, and liquid ammonia.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 气体液化
Translation: 气体混合物或通过冷却或压缩得到的液态混合物，例如液化石油气（LPG）、液化天然气（LNG）、液态氧和液态氨。

Code: 4843
English Term: liquid manure
Definition: Any fertilizer substance with a moisture content of over ninety percent, usually consisting of animal excrement with water added.&#10;(Source: MUM)
Chinese Term: 液体肥料
Translation: 任何有百分之九十以上水分含量的肥料物质，通常是加入水分的动物粪便。

Code: 4844
English Term: liquid state
Definition: A state of matter intermediate between that of crystalline substances and gases in which a substance has the capacity to flow under extremely small shear stresses and conforms to the shape of a confining vessel, but is relatively incompressible, lacks the capacity to expand without limit, and can posses a free surface.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 液态
Translation: 处于结晶态和气态间的一种物质的状态，在这种状态下，物质可以在非常小的缝隙间流动并于容器的形状相符合，但相对不可压缩，没有无限制膨胀的能力，并拥有其自由液面。

Code: 4845
English Term: liquid waste
Definition: Fluid wastes, consisting of sewage and domestic wastewater, or processed water, or other liquids, produced by industrial activity, particularly by such industries as pulp and paper production, food processing, and the manufacture of chemicals.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 液体废物
Translation: 液体废物，由污水和生活污水或处理过的水或其他液体组成，由工业活动产生，尤其是纸浆和纸张生产、食品加工、化学品生产这些行业。

Code: 4850
English Term: Literature
Definition: Written material such as poetry, novels, essays, especially works of imagination characterized by excellence of style and expression and by themes of general or enduring interest.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 文学
Translation: 书面材料，如诗歌、小说、散文，特别是以卓越的风格和表达以及大众长期关心的主题为特征的富有想象力的作品。

Code: 4851
English Term: literature data bank
Definition: A fund of information on a particular subject or group of related subjects, divided into discrete documents and usually stored in and used with a computer system.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 文献资料库
Translation: 一项某一特定学科或一组相关学科的专用数据，这些数据被划分为离散的文件，通常存储在计算机系统中以供使用。

Code: 4852
English Term: literature evaluation
Definition: The action of evaluating or judging the quality or character of written materials such as poetry, essays, novels, biographies and historical writings.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 文献评价
Translation: 对于书面材料的质量或性质做出评价或判断的行为，例如诗歌、散文、小说、传记和历史著作。

Code: 4853
English Term: literature study
Definition: The identification, description, analysis and classification of books and other materials used or consulted in the preparation of a work.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 文学研究
Translation: 对书籍的识别、描述、分析和分类，以及对和其他材料的使用或查询。

Code: 4855
English Term: lithosphere
Definition: The solid portion of the Earth, as compared with the atmosphere and the hydrosphere.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 岩石圈
Translation: 地球的固体部分，相对于大气圈和水圈。

Code: 11563
English Term: litigation
Definition: A judicial contest, a judicial controversy, a suit at law.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 诉讼
Translation: 一种司法活动，一种司法辩论，一种法律程序。

Code: 4857
English Term: litter
Definition: Straw, hay or similar material used as bedding by animals.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 垫草
Translation: 当做动物被褥使用的稻草、干草或类似的材料。

Code: 4858
English Term: littoral
Definition: The intertidal zone of the seashore.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 滨海
Translation: 海边潮间带地区。

Code: 4862
English Term: livestock
Definition: Cattle, horses, and similar animals kept for domestic use especially on a farm.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 牲畜
Translation: 为持家而蓄养特别是在牧场中的牛、马和类似动物。

Code: 4863
English Term: livestock breeding
Definition: The raising of livestock by crossing different varieties to obtain new varieties with desired characteristics.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 畜牧业
Translation: 牲畜的蓄养，通过对不同品种间的交配以获得具有所需特征的新品种。

Code: 4864
English Term: livestock farming
Definition: Breeding of cattle, horses and similar animals.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 禽畜饲养
Translation: 牛、马和类似动物的饲养。

Code: 4866
English Term: living condition
Definition: An element or characteristic of a habitation considered in light of its ability to sustain and promote the health and general well-being of occupants.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 生活条件
Translation: 居住地的基本要素或特点，是根据其维持和促进居住者的健康和普遍良好状态的能力而考虑。

Code: 10933
English Term: living environment
Definition: External conditions or surroundings in which people live or work.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 生活环境
Translation: 人们居住或工作的外部条件或周围环境。

Code: 4867
English Term: living marine resource
Definition:
Chinese Term: 海洋生物资源
Translation:

Code: 4868
English Term: living space
Definition: Any room, structure or area used as a residence and associated with subsistence activities, including sleeping, relaxing or eating.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 生活空间
Translation: 作为居住和生活的空间、结构或地区，与生存活动，包括睡眠、放松或进食相关。

Code: 10939
English Term: living standard
Definition: A measurement of the development level in a country or community, gauged by factors such as personal income, education, life expectancy, food consumption, health care, technology and the use of natural resources.&#10;(Source: TEX)
Chinese Term: 生活水平
Translation: 对一个国家或社区发展水平的衡量，衡量的因素包括诸如个人收入、教育、预期寿命、食品消费、医疗保健、技术和自然资源的使用。

Code: 4871
English Term: lizard
Definition: Any reptile of the suborder Lacertilia, especially those of the family Lacertidae, typically having an elongated body, four limbs, and a small tail: includes the gechos, iguanas, chameleons, monitors, and slow worms.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 蜥蜴
Translation: 任何蜥蜴亚目爬行动物，尤其是正蜥科，通常有细长的身躯、四条腿和一个小尾巴。包括gechos、鬣蜥、变色龙、巨蜥以及缓慢的蠕虫。

Code: 4873
English Term: load bearing capacity
Definition: The maximum load that a system can support before failing.&#10;(Source: LEEa)
Chinese Term: 承载能力
Translation: 一个系统可以支持的最大负荷。

Code: 10683
English Term: local afforestation
Definition: The planting of trees in an area, or the management of an area to allow trees to regenerate or colonize naturally, in order to produce a forest.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 当地造林
Translation: 某个地区的树木种植，或者对某地区进行管理以使树木重建或自然生长，以便产生一片森林。

Code: 4879
English Term: local authority
Definition: The power of a government agency or its administrators to administer and implement laws and government policies for a city, town or small district.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 地方当局
Translation: 政府机构的权利，或其管理和实施城市、小城镇或地区的法律和政府的政策的行政权力机构。

Code: 4888
English Term: local building material
Definition:
Chinese Term: 当地建筑材料
Translation:

Code: 11095
English Term: local development
Definition: A stage of growth or advancement in any aspect of a community that is defined by or restricted to a particular and usually small district or area.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 地方发展
Translation: 任何一个被定义为特定和通常是小区域或小地区的社区经济增长或发展的情况。

Code: 4884
English Term: local finance
Definition: The theory and practice of all public money matters pertaining to city, town or small district governments.&#10;(Source: ODE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 地方财政
Translation: 城市、城镇或小区政府有关的所有公共资金的理论和实践。

Code: 10992
English Term: local government
Definition: An administrative body or system in which political direction and control is exercised over the community of a city, town or small district.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 地方政府
Translation: 一个行政机构或政治体制，对一个城市、小城镇或地区社区行使政治引导和控制。

Code: 4885
English Term: local government policy
Definition: Any course of action adopted and pursued by a ruling political authority or system, which determines the affairs for a city, town, county or regional area.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 地方政府政策
Translation: 执政的政治机构或系统采用的所有行动的方案，它决定了一个城市、城镇、县或地区范围内的行政事务的执行。

Code: 14963
English Term: local heat supply
Definition: The provision of heating fuel, coal or other heating source materials, or the amount of heating capacity, for the use of a specific local community.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 地方供热
Translation: 为一个具体的地方社区使用的，取暖燃料、煤或其他加热源材料的提供，或总体供热的能力。

Code: 4889
English Term: local passenger service
Definition: Passenger transport system for a limited local area.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 本地客运服务
Translation: 有限区域内的乘客运输系统。

Code: 5953
English Term: local recreation
Definition: A pastime, diversion, exercise or other means of enjoyment and relaxation that is carried out in a particular city, town or small district.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 本地娱乐
Translation: 在某个特定的城市、小镇或地区进行的消遣、娱乐、运动或其它方式的享受和放松方式。

Code: 8876
English Term: local resource utilisation
Definition: The use of a source of supply from a municipal or regional area, which can be readily drawn upon when needed.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 当地资源利用
Translation: 在某个城市或地区范围内的资源供给，可以在需要时随时提取。

Code: 4891
English Term: local traffic
Definition: Traffic moving within a city, town, or area and subject to frequent stops, as distinguished from long distance traffic.
Chinese Term: 当地交通
Translation: 在城市、市镇或地区内的交通运输，不同于长途运输，当地交通有多个站点。

Code: 4893
English Term: location of industries
Definition: The particular place that seems apt for the installation of a new plant; the choice of the site depends on a number of economic and environmental factors.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 公司定址
Translation: 适合新公司定址的特定的地方；位置的选定取决于经济和环境因素。

Code: 4897
English Term: locomotive
Definition: A self -propelled engine driven by steam, electricity or diesel power and used for drawing trains along railway tracks.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 火车头
Translation: 蒸汽、电力或柴油驱动的自行式引擎，用以牵引火车铁路路轨行驶。

Code: 10898
English Term: lodging
Definition: Provision of accommodation for rest or for residence in a room or rooms or in a dwelling place.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 房屋出租
Translation: 休息之处、居住之房间或住宅区的提供。

Code: 4902
English Term: long-distance traffic
Definition: Traffic moving over extended areas, great distances and usually not subject to frequent stops.
Chinese Term: 长途交通
Translation: 跨区域、长距离的交通运输，通常不受频繁停靠的影响。

Code: 4903
English Term: long-distance transport
Definition: The conveyance of materials or commodities over land, water or through air in which a great distance is covered.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 长途运输
Translation: 对材料或商品的陆地、水上、或空中的长距离传输。

Code: 14937
English Term: longitude
Definition: Distance in degrees east or west of the prime meridian at 0° measured by the angle between the plane of the prime meridian and that of the meridian through the point in question, or by the corresponding time difference.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 经度
Translation: 以度数标注的本初子午线以东或以西距离，某点的度数为本初子午线所在平面和经过该点的经线所在平面的夹角，或者由相应的时间差决定。

Code: 4906
English Term: long-term effect
Definition: Effects which will last long after the cause has ceased.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 长期效应
Translation: 在原因停止后将会长期持续的影响。

Code: 4907
English Term: long-term effect of pollutants
Definition:
Chinese Term: 污染的长期效应
Translation:

Code: 4908
English Term: long-term experiment
Definition: 1) Experiment lasting for a relatively long period of time.&#10; 2) Experiment whose results become effective after a long period of time.&#10;(Source: SHOOXa)
Chinese Term: 长期试验
Translation: 1）持续相对较长一段时间的试验。&#10;2）其实验效果将会持续很长一段时间的试验。

Code: 4909
English Term: long-term forecasting
Definition: The act or process of predicting and calculating the likely conditions or occurrences for an extended and future point in time, often involving the study and analysis of pertinent data.&#10;(Source: RHW / MHE)
Chinese Term: 长期预报
Translation: 为未来的时间点的预测和计算最可能的情况或事件的行为或过程，往往涉及对现在数据的研究和分析。

Code: 4911
English Term: long-term trend
Definition: The prevailing tendency or general direction expected for some observed value over a lengthy and extended period of time, often determined by studying and analyzing statistical data.&#10;(Source: RHW / APD)
Chinese Term: 长期趋势
Translation: 通过一段很长时间的观测值来预期流行倾向或总体方向，往往通过研究和分析统计数据而确定。

Code: 4913
English Term: lorry
Definition: A large motor vehicle designed to carry heavy loads, especially one with a flat platform.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 货车
Translation: 用以携带重物设计的大型汽车，尤其指具有载货平台的。

Code: 4914
English Term: loss
Definition: The result of a business operation where overhead costs are greater than the receipts or income.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  ODE)
Chinese Term: 损失
Translation: 营业中的一种经营费用大于收益或收入的状况。

Code: 4916
English Term: loss of biotope
Definition: Destruction of biotopes produced by environmental degradation which in turn is caused by air- or water-borne pollution.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 群落生境丧失
Translation: 空气或水传播的污染所造成的环境恶化而引起的群落生境的退化。

Code: 4917
English Term: loudness
Definition: The magnitude of the physiological sensation produced by a sound, which varies directly with the physical intensity of sound but also depends on frequency of sound and waveform.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 响度
Translation: 声音引起的生理感觉的幅度，它直接区分于声音的物理强度，而且依赖于声音的波形和频率。

Code: 4922
English Term: low flow
Definition: Phase of lowest level of a water course.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 低流处
Translation: 水道的最底平面段。

Code: 4918
English Term: low-cost housing
Definition: Residences built at minimal expense and designed to keep the rental rate or price of purchase affordable for persons with limited means, usually determined by an annual income level set below the local median.&#10;(Source: NAH)
Chinese Term: 低成本住房
Translation: 最小成本建设的公寓，旨在保持出租率或购买价格为小户收入者负担得起，这种小户通常由一年收入低于当地平均水平来确定。

Code: 4920
English Term: Lower House
Definition: The body of a bicameral legislature composed of representatives elected by the general populace and organized into electorates or districts, each comprising an equal number of citizens.&#10;(Source: CIV)
Chinese Term: 众议院
Translation: 由一般民众所选出的代表而组成的两院制立法机构，其按照全体选民或地区组织，每个地区包含相等人数的居民。

Code: 4921
English Term: lower risk species  (IUCN)
Definition: Animals, birds, fish, plants or other living organisms that have been deemed as not being in danger of extinction.&#10;(Source: OED /  TOE)
Chinese Term: 低风险物种（自然保护联盟）
Translation: 已被视为不具有濒临灭绝危险的动物、鸟类、鱼类、植物或其它生物体。

Code: 4929
English Term: low-level flight
Definition: Flying at low altitude.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 低空飞行
Translation: 在低空中飞行。

Code: 4931
English Term: low-level technology
Definition: Any relatively unsophisticated technical equipment or method with an amplitude or functionality below what is available in a similar or comparable system.&#10;(Source: RHW / APD)
Chinese Term: 低层次技术
Translation: 任何相对简单的技术技能或方法，其幅度或功能低于相似或相当的系统中所使用的。

Code: 4934
English Term: lubricant
Definition: A substance used to reduce friction between parts or objects in relative motion.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 润滑剂
Translation: 一种用于减少部件或相对运动物体之间摩擦的物质。

Code: 4937
English Term: luminosity
Definition: The functional relationship between stellar magnitude and the number and distribution of stars of each magnitude interval. Also known as relative luminosity factor.&#10;(Source: UVAROV /  MGH)
Chinese Term: 光度
Translation: 恒星星等之间以及各规模区间星级的数量和分布的函数关系。也称为相对亮度的因素。

Code: 4942
English Term: lye
Definition: The alkaline solution that is obtained from the leaching of wood ashes.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 碱液
Translation: 由木灰浸泡得到的碱性溶液。

Code: 4945
English Term: lymphatic system
Definition: A system of vessels and nodes conveying lymph in the vertebrate body, beginning with capillaries in tissue spaces and eventually forming the thoracic ducts which empty in the subclavian veins.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 淋巴系统
Translation: 脊椎动物体内输送淋巴液的管道和节点，从组织间隙的毛细血管开始，最终形成锁骨下的静脉空腔导管。

Code: 4948
English Term: lysimetry
Definition: The measurement of the water percolating through soils and the determination of the materials dissolved by the water.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: lysimetry
Translation: 对土壤渗滤的水的测量和被水溶解的材料的测定。

Code: 4952
English Term: machine manufacture
Definition: The making or production of mechanical apparatuses used for commercial or industrial purposes, such as engines and turbines, elevators and conveying equipment, computers and office equipment, and hoists, cranes and industrial trucks.&#10;(Source: RHW / SIC)
Chinese Term: 机械制造
Translation: 用于商业或工业中的机械器材的制作或生产，如发动机和涡轮机、电梯和输送设备、计算机和办公设备、及提升机、起重机、工业卡车。

Code: 13222
English Term: machinery
Definition: A group of parts or machines arranged to perform a useful function.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 机械
Translation: 用来执行有用的功能的一组零件或机器。

Code: 4956
English Term: macroeconomic goal
Definition: An aim or objective pertaining to the production, distribution and use of income, wealth and commodities in a country, region or other large area, typically concerned with governmental fiscal and monetary policy as it affects employment, consumption, investment and growth levels.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 宏观经济目标
Translation: 附属于在一个国家、地区或其它大面积范围内的有关于收入、财产和商品 生产、分配、使用的目的或目标，由于其影响到就业、消费、投资和发展水平，通常与政府的财政和货币政策有关。

Code: 4957
English Term: macroeconomics
Definition: Modern economic analysis that is concerned with data inaggregate as opposed to individual form such as national income, consumption and investment.&#10;(Source: GREENW /  CED)
Chinese Term: 宏观经济学
Translation: 集中于数据集合的现代经济学分析，而不是独立形式的数据，如国民收入、消费和投资。

Code: 10575
English Term: macrophyte
Definition: A large macroscopic plant, used especially of aquatic forms such as kelp (variety of large brown seaweed which is a source of iodine and potash).&#10;(Source: LBC /  PHC)
Chinese Term: 大型海藻
Translation: 一种大型宏观植物，通常以水生形式存在，如海带（大型褐色海藻是碘和钾的来源）。

Code: 4964
English Term: magnetic tape
Definition: A plastic, paper, or metal tape that is coated or impregnated with magnetizable iron oxide particles, used in magnetic recording.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 磁带
Translation: 用磁化氧化铁颗粒做涂层或浸渍的塑料、纸张或金属带，用于磁记录。

Code: 4965
English Term: magnetism
Definition: A class of physical phenomena associated with moving electricity, including the mutual mechanical forces among magnets and electric currents.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 磁
Translation: 与移动的电流相关的的物理现象，包括磁铁和电流之间的相互机械力。

Code: 4967
English Term: mailing list
Definition: A series of addresses or e-mail addresses to which solicited or unsolicited mass mailings can be sent.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 邮件发送列表
Translation: 一系列的地址或电子邮件地址，可以用其发送大量的请求或未请求的邮件。

Code: 13561
English Term: maintenance (technical)
Definition: The upkeep of industrial facilities and equipment.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 维修（技术）
Translation: 对工业设施和设备的维护。

Code: 4969
English Term: maintenance of environment
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 环境维护
Translation: 无需定义。

Code: 4971
English Term: major accident
Definition: An unexpected occurrence, failure or loss beyond normal or specified levels with the potential for harming human life, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: TOE / HMD)
Chinese Term: 重大事故
Translation: 一种意外的事件，其破坏或危害超出正常水平或人类生命、财产或环境的潜在的承受水平。

Code: 10104
English Term: major risk
Definition: The high probability that a given hazard or situation will yield a significant amount of lives lost, persons injured, damage to property , disruption of economic activity or harm to the environment; or any product of the probability of occurrence and the expected magnitude of damage beyond a maximum acceptable level.&#10;(Source: TOE / HMD)
Chinese Term: 高风险
Translation: 给定的危险或情况将产生重大的生命损失、人员伤害、财产损失、经济活动崩溃或环境的破坏，这些是有极大的可能性，或任何有可能发生并且预期的危害程度超出最高可接受的水平的产品。


Code: 12807
English Term: major risk installation
Definition: Installations whose functioning involves the possibility of major hazards such as chemical plants, nuclear, coal and oil power production plants, etc.&#10;(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term: 重大风险设备
Translation: 其功能涉及到如化学工厂、核能、煤和石油电力生产厂等重大灾害的可能性的设备。

Code: 4974
English Term: malaria
Definition: A group of human febrile diseases with a chronic relapsing course caused by hemosporidian blood parasites of the genus Plasmodium, transmitted by the bite of Anopheles mosquito.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 疟疾
Translation: 由疟原虫属hemosporidian血液寄生虫引起的、 按蚊叮咬传播的一种人类慢性复发性的一系列的发烧疾病。

Code: 4977
English Term: malformation
Definition: Permanent structural change that may adversely affect survival, development or function.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 畸形
Translation: 可能影响生存、发展或功能的长期的结构变化。

Code: 4979
English Term: malnutrition
Definition: Defective nutrition due to inadequate intake of nutrients or to their faulty digestion, assimilation or metabolism.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 营养不良
Translation: 不充足的营养摄取或有缺陷的消化、吸收或新陈代谢引起的有缺陷的营养补给。

Code: 4982
English Term: mammal
Definition: Any animal of the Mammalia, a large class of warm-blooded vertebrates having mammary glands in the female, a thoracic diaphragm, and a four-chambered heart. The class includes the whales, carnivores, rodents, bats, primates, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 哺乳动物
Translation: 哺乳动物是一大类温血脊椎动物，雌性有乳腺，有一个胸腔隔膜和一个四腔心脏。本类包括鲸鱼、食肉动物、老鼠、蝙蝠、灵长类等。

Code: 4984
English Term: man (society)
Definition: A member of the human race.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 人（社会）
Translation: 人类种族的成员。

Code: 4985
English Term: Management
Definition: Government, control, superintendence, physical or manual handling or guidance; act of managing by direction or regulation, or administration, as management of family, or of household, etc.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 管理
Translation: 统治、控制、监督、物理或手工处理或指导；按照指示或规例、或行政来行使管理，如管理家庭或家人等。

Code: 13261
English Term: management accounting
Definition: The collection and processing of financial information to assist with the handling, direction, or control of an organization.&#10;(Source: ODE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 管理会计
Translation: 财务信息的收集和处理，以协助某个组织的操纵、指导或控制。

Code: 4987
English Term: management contract
Definition: A legal agreement between two or more parties of employers and workers that outlines the administrative or supervisory work that is expected in exchange for certain payments and working conditions.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 管理合约
Translation: 两个或两个以上的雇主和工人间的法律协议，其概述了在某些报酬和工作条件之间被期望的的行政或监督工作。

Code: 4988
English Term: management of natural resources
Definition: Planned use of natural resources, in particular of non-renewable resources, in accordance with principles that assure their optimum long-term economic and social benefits.&#10;(Source: MUCKa)
Chinese Term: 自然资源管理
Translation: 天然资源，特别是不可再生资源的计划使用，与保证最佳的长期经济和社会效益原则保持一致。

Code: 4990
English Term: management plan
Definition: A program of action designed to reach a given set of objectives.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 管理计划
Translation: 某个旨在达到特定的目标而设定的行动纲领。

Code: 13291
English Term: management technique
Definition: systematic approach or method of performance for the accomplishment of administrative goals or tasks.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 管理技术
Translation: 系统化的实践的步骤或方法，旨在行政目标或任务的完成。

Code: 4994
English Term: mandate
Definition: A command or authorization to act in a particular way given by an administrator to a subordinate, a court to a lower court or an electorate to its representative.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 任务
Translation: 以特殊方式实施的命令或授权，由行政人员下达给下级人员、法院下达给下级法院、或全体选民下达给其选民代表。

Code: 4998
English Term: mangrove
Definition: Plant communities and trees that inhabit tidal swamps, muddy silt, and sand banks at the mouths of rivers and other low-lying areas which are regularly inundated by the sea, but which are protected from strong waves and currents. Mangroves are the only woody species that will grow where the land is periodically flooded with sea water; individual species have adapted themselves to different tidal levels, to various degrees of salinity, and to the nature of the mud or soil. Mangrove swamps and thickets support hundreds of terrestrial, marine, and amphibian species; have a special role in supporting estuarine fisheries; provide shelter, refuge and food for many forms of wildlife.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 红树
Translation: 植物群落和树木，生长于潮汐沼泽、泥泞的淤泥、河流入海口处的沙滩和其他经常被海水淹没却不受强大海浪和海流侵害的低洼地区。红树林是唯一的能在定期被海水淹没的地区生长的木本植物；个别物种已适应不同潮位、不同程度的盐碱化、以及不同性质的淤泥或土壤。红树林沼泽和灌木丛供养着数百种陆栖、海生和两栖类物种，在支持河口渔业以及为多种野生动物的提供栖息地、避难所和食物中有特殊作用。

Code: 4999
English Term: mangrove swamp
Definition: A wet, spongy area of land in tropical climates and along coastal regions that is dominated by mangrove trees and shrubs, particularly red mangroves (Rhizophora), black mangroves (Avicennia) and white mangroves (Laguncularia).&#10;(Source: FFD)
Chinese Term: 红树林沼泽
Translation: 在热带气候和沿海区，以生长红树林和灌木为主的潮湿、海绵状柔软吸水的地区，特别是长有红色的红树林（红海）、黑色红树林（白骨）和白色红树林（Laguncularia）。


Code: 5000
English Term: man-made climate change
Definition: Man-made climate changes may be due to the greenhouse effect and other human activities. A change in albedo of the land brought about by desertification and deforestation affects the amount of solar energy absorbed at the earth's surface. Man-made aerosols produced from the sulphur released from power stations can modify clouds. Changes in ozone levels in the stratosphere due to CFCs may influence climate.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 人为造成的气候变化
Translation: 人为造成的气候变化可能应归于温室效应和其他人类活动。荒漠化和森林砍伐所带来的土地的反照率的变化影响了太阳能在地球表面吸收。从发电厂释放的硫所产生的人造气溶胶可以减轻云层。由氟氯化碳引起的大气中的臭氧层变化可能影响气候。

Code: 5003
English Term: man-nature relationship
Definition:
Chinese Term: 人与自然的关系
Translation:

Code: 5004
English Term: manpower
Definition: 1) The power generated by a man working.&#10; 2) The number of people available for work, service, etc.
Chinese Term: 劳动力
Translation: 1）一个人的工作产生的作用。&#10;2）能够工作、服务等等的人的数目。

Code: 5005
English Term: manufacturing activity
Definition: Activities connected with the processing of raw material into a finished product, especially by means of a large-scale industrial operation.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 制造业活动
Translation: 与原材料加工成成品有关的活动，特别是通过大规模的产业化经营的方式。

Code: 5006
English Term: manufacturing trade
Definition: The process or act of exchanging, buying or selling any manufactured product, or the raw materials for any manufacturing process.&#10;(Source: RHW /  ISEP)
Chinese Term: 制造业贸易
Translation: 交换、购买或出售任何制造产品、或任何生产过程中所需的原料的过程或行为。

Code: 5007
English Term: manure
Definition: Animal excreta collected from stables and barnyards with or without litter; used to enrich the soil.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 肥料
Translation: 从有或者没有垫草的畜舍和牲畜运动场里搜集的动物排泄物，用来增肥土壤。

Code: 5009
English Term: manure production
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 肥料生产
Translation: 无需定义。

Code: 5011
English Term: map
Definition: A representation, normally on a flat medium, that displays the physical and political features of a surface area of the earth, showing them in their respective forms, sizes and relationships according to some convention of representation.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 地图
Translation: 通常在平坦的纸张上的一种表示，其显示地球表面地区的物理和政治属性，并按照图画的传统手法来展示其各自的形式、大小和关系。

Code: 1292
English Term: map chart
Definition: A map, generally designed for navigation or other particular purposes, in which essential map information is combined with various other data critical to the intended use.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 陆海图
Translation: 一种地图，一般为导航或其他特定目的设计，其中主要的地图信息与各种其他要使用的重要数据相结合。

Code: 5013
English Term: mapping
Definition: The process of making a map of an area; especially the field work necessary for the production of a map.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 制图
Translation: 制作某个地区的地图的过程；特别是制作地图生产所必需的野外工作。

Code: 5014
English Term: mapping of lichens
Definition: Maps of lichens distribution indicating air quality. Fruticose lichens (with branched structures well above the surface) are more susceptible to SO2 damage than foliose lichens (whose leaflike thallus lies nearly flat on surface) and both in turn are more susceptible than crustose lichens (which embed their tissue in the cracks of bark, soil, or rocks). The use of morphological lichen types as indicators of air pollution concentrations is well developed.&#10;(Source: WESTM)
Chinese Term: 地衣制图
Translation: 地衣分布图显示着空气质量。灌木地衣（其分枝结构远高于表面）比小叶地衣（其叶状菌几乎与体表面持平）更容易受到二氧化硫的损害，反过来都比壳状地衣（即它们的组织嵌入在树皮裂缝、土壤或岩石中）较敏感于二氧化硫。形态学地衣类型作为空气污染浓度指标的使用已经相当成熟。

Code: 10699
English Term: maquis
Definition: A low evergreen shrub formation, usually found on siliceous soils in the Mediterranean lands where winter rainfall and summer drought are the characteristic climate features. It consists of a profusion of aromatic species, such as lavender, myrtle, oleander and rosemary and often includes abundant spiny shrubs. It has been suggested that the maquis is a secondary vegetation, occupying the lands cleared of their natural evergreen oak forests by human activity.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 灌木地带
Translation: 低矮常绿灌木的形成物，通常在有着冬季降水、夏季干旱气候特点地中海中的硅质土地上建立。包括丰富的诸如薰衣草、香桃木、夹竹桃和迷迭香的芳香物种，并且往往包含丰富的多刺灌木。有建议称灌木地带是次要的植被，居于被人类活动清楚地天然常绿栎林的地位。

Code: 5018
English Term: marble
Definition: Metamorphic rock composed of recrystallized calcite or dolomite.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 大理石
Translation: 由方解石或白云石组成的变质岩。

Code: 5023
English Term: marginal land
Definition: Low quality land the value of whose production barely covers its cultivation costs.&#10;(Source: PAENS)
Chinese Term: 边际土地
Translation: 低质量的土地上，其生产价值仅够支付其种植成本。

Code: 5024
English Term: mariculture
Definition: Cultivation of marine organisms in their natural habitats, usually for commercial purposes.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 海水养殖
Translation: 在其自然栖息地进行的海洋生物培育，通常作为商业用途。

Code: 5025
English Term: marina
Definition: A small port that is used for pleasure rather than trade, often with hotels, restaurants and bars.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 码头
Translation: 一种小港口，通常用于娱乐而不是贸易，经常与酒店、餐馆和酒吧一起使用。

Code: 5027
English Term: marine biology
Definition: A branch of biology that deals with those living organisms which inhabit the sea.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海洋生物学
Translation: 一个生物学的分支，论述栖息在海中的生物。

Code: 5029
English Term: marine conservation area
Definition: Any section of a sea or ocean designated for special protection, often to prevent or reduce harm to its wildlife and ecosystems.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 海洋保护区
Translation: 任何指定为特别保护的大海或大洋部分，通常用以防止或减少对其野生动物和生态系统的伤害。

Code: 5030
English Term: marine ecology
Definition: An integrative science that studies the basic structural and functional relationships within and among living populations and their physical-chemical environments in marine ecosystems. Marine ecology focuses on specific organisms as well as on particular environments or physical settings.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 海洋生态
Translation: 一门综合性学科，研究海洋生态系统的基本结构、生物群内部和相互之间的功能关系及其物理化学环境。海洋生态着重于研究具体的生物体以及其特定环境或物理条件。

Code: 5031
English Term: marine ecosystem
Definition: Any marine environment, from pond to ocean, in which plants and animals interact with the chemical and physical features of the environment.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 海洋生态系统
Translation: 任何海洋环境，从池塘到海洋，其中的植物和动物与其化学和物理环境特性相互作用。

Code: 5032
English Term: marine engineering
Definition: The design, construction, installation, operation, and maintenance of main power plants, as well as the associated auxiliary machinery and equipment, for the propulsion of ships.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海洋工程
Translation: 为了制作船舶的动力装置，主要发电厂以及相关的辅助机械和设备的设计、施工、安装、运行和维护。

Code: 5033
English Term: marine environment
Definition: Marine environments include estuaries, coastal marine and nearshore zones, and open-ocean-deep-sea regions.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 海洋环境
Translation: 海洋环境包括河口、近岸海洋和沿海区、开放式深海区。

Code: 5034
English Term: marine fauna
Definition: Animals which live in the sea.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 海洋动物
Translation: 生活在海中的动物。

Code: 5035
English Term: marine fishery
Definition: The harvest of animals and plants from the ocean to provide food and recreation for people, food for animals, and a variety of organic materials for industry.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 海洋渔业
Translation: 从海洋捕捞动物和植物为人们提供食物和娱乐，为动物提供饲料，以及对工业提供多种有机材料。

Code: 5038
English Term: marine geology
Definition: That aspect of the study of the ocean that deals specifically with the ocean floor and the ocean-continent border, including submarine relief features, the geochemistry and petrology of the sediments and rocks of the ocean bottom and the influence of seawater and waves on the ocean bottom and its materials.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 海洋地质学
Translation: 对于海洋，特别是针对大洋底和海洋大陆边界的研究，包括海底地形特征、海洋底部沉积物和岩石的海洋化学和岩石学、海水和波浪对海洋底部及其材料的影响。

Code: 10421
English Term: marine mammal
Definition: Mammals which have adapted to live in the sea, such as whales, dolphins, porpoises, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 海洋哺乳动物
Translation: 适应生活在海上的哺乳动物，如鲸、海豚、鼠海豚等。

Code: 5042
English Term: marine monitoring
Definition: The assessment of marine pollution by an integrated chemical, ecological and toxicological survey.&#10;(Source: ENVAR)
Chinese Term: 海洋监测
Translation: 通过化学、生态学和毒理学的综合调查评估海洋污染。

Code: 5043
English Term: marine organism
Definition: Organisms which live in sea water.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 海洋生物
Translation: 在海水中生活的生物体。

Code: 10199
English Term: marine park
Definition: A permanent reservation on the seabed for the conservation of species.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 海洋公园
Translation: 为了物种保护的海底的永久保护区。

Code: 5044
English Term: marine pollution
Definition: Any detrimental alteration of the marine environment caused by the intentional or accidental release of dangerous or toxic substances, such as industrial, commercial and urban waste water.&#10;(Source: GREMESa)
Chinese Term: 海洋污染
Translation: 任何的危险或有毒物质造成的海洋环境的有害变化，如工业、商业和城市污水故意或意外的释放。

Code: 5046
English Term: marine reserve
Definition: Sea area where marine wildlife is protected.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 海洋保护区
Translation: 进行海洋野生动物保护的海域。

Code: 5048
English Term: marine resources conservation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 海洋资源保护
Translation:

Code: 5049
English Term: marine sediment
Definition: Solid fragmental material, originated from weathering of rocks, that has settled down from a state of suspension in the water.&#10;(Source: BJGEOa)
Chinese Term: 海洋沉积物
Translation: 固体断片材料，起源于岩石风化，并由水中的悬浮态沉淀而成。

Code: 13336
English Term: marital status
Definition: The standing of an individual with regard to a legally recognized conjugal relationship, either in the present or past.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 婚姻状况
Translation: 对于在法律上承认的夫妻关系的个人的一种身份，无论现在或过去。

Code: 5051
English Term: maritime law
Definition: That system of law which particularly relates to marine commerce and navigation, to business transacted at sea or relating to navigation, to ships and shipping, to seamen, to the transportation of persons and property by sea, and to marine affairs generally.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 海事法
Translation: 一项法律制度，特别指涉及到所有的海上贸易和航行、海上交易的或与航行有关的业务、船舶和航运、海员、人员和财产的海上运输、海洋事务。

Code: 5052
English Term: maritime navigation
Definition: Travelling on the sea by means of boats, ships, etc.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 海上航行
Translation: 通过舰艇、船舶等方式在海上行进。

Code: 5055
English Term: maritime transport
Definition: Transportation of goods or persons by means of ships travelling on the sea.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 海上运输
Translation: 货物或人员通过海上行驶的船舶进行的运输。

Code: 5056
English Term: marker
Definition: 1) Small amount of an easily detected substance that can be used to follow and quantify the flow of materials or movement of organisms not otherwise visible or detectable by ordinary means.&#10; 2) An isotope of an element, a small amount of which may be incorporated into a sample of material in order to follow the course of that element through a chemical, biological, or physical process, and thus also follow the larger sample. The tracer may be radioactive, in which case observations are made by measuring the radioactivity.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 标记
Translation: 1）少量的很容易被发现的物质，可用于跟踪和量化对于其他普通检测方式不可见或不能检测的材料流动或生物运动。&#10;2）一种含有同位素元素的物质，其少量可能被纳入样本，用以跟踪化学、生物或物理过程中该元素的过程，此时同位素也与较大的样本一起参与过程。示踪剂可能是放射性的，在这种情况下观测是通过测量放射性而实现的。

Code: 5058
English Term: market
Definition: Place of commercial activity in which articles are bought and sold. Also purchase and sale. In a limited sense market is the range of bid and asked prices reported by brokers making the market in over-the-counter securities. Also the demand for any particular article.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 市场
Translation: 进行物品买卖的商业活动的场所。也指购买和销售。一种狭义上的市场是指出价和向股票经纪人询问价格，进行有价证券场外交易所进行交易。也指任何具体商品的需求。

Code: 5061
English Term: market economy
Definition: A mixed economy that relies heavily on markets to answer the three basic questions of allocation, but with a modest amount of government involvement. While it is commonly termed capitalism, market-oriented economy is much more descriptive of how the economy is structured.&#10;(Source: AMOS2)
Chinese Term: 市场经济
Translation: 一种混合经济，依赖于市场对三个基本问题的定位，但政府参与的数额有限。虽然它通常被称为资本主义，以市场为导向的经济对经济是如何构成的更具有解释性。

Code: 5062
English Term: market form
Definition: The organizational form or structure of the trade or traffic of a particular commodity.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 市场形式
Translation: 组织形式、交易结构、或某一商品的流动。

Code: 11178
English Term: market gardening
Definition: The business of growing fruit and vegetables on a commercial scale.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 商品果菜种植业
Translation: 在商业规模的用以交易的水果和蔬菜种植。

Code: 13255
English Term: market price
Definition: The price actually given in current market dealings; the actual price at which given stock or commodity is currently sold in the usual and ordinary course of trade and competition between sellers and buyers.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 市场价格
Translation: 在当前的市场交易中给出的实际上的价格；特定股票或商品按照通常交易过程的卖方和买方竞争和交易当前出售的实际价格。

Code: 5068
English Term: market research
Definition: The systematic gathering, recording, computing, and analysing of data about problems relating to the sale and distribution of goods and services for certain time periods.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term: 市场调查
Translation: 关于商品的销售和分配及特定时段的服务的问题的系统的收集、记录、计算和数据分析 。

Code: 11097
English Term: market study
Definition: The gathering and studying of data to determine the projection of demand for an item or service.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 市场研究
Translation: 数据的收集和研究，以确定某一个项目或服务的需求预测。

Code: 5064
English Term: marketing
Definition: A related group of business activities whose purpose is to satisfy the demands for goods and services of consumers, businesses and government. The marketing process includes estimating the demand, producing the product, pricing the product to satisfy profit criteria, and promoting and distributing the product.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term: 市场营销
Translation: 一组相关的商业活动，其目的是为了满足对商品和消费者、企业和政府服务的需求。营销过程包括需求的评估、生产的产品、满足利润准则的产品定价以及产品的推销和分配。

Code: 8252
English Term: marsh
Definition: An periodically inundated area of low ground having shrubs and trees, with or without the formation of peat.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沼泽
Translation: 长有低灌木和树木的低洼的定期洪泛区，含或不含泥炭的形成。

Code: 5076
English Term: marsupial
Definition: Type of Australian mammal with a pouch in which the young are carried. Marsupials give birth to young at a much earlier stage of development than other mammals so that the young need to be protected in the mother's pouch for some months until they become able to look after themselves.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 有袋目哺乳动物
Translation: 澳大利亚哺乳动物种类，其长有承载幼子的袋子。有袋动物幼崽生在一个比其他动物早很多的早期发育阶段，使得其需要在母亲的保护袋中被保护数月直至其能够照顾自己。

Code: 10068
English Term: masonry
Definition: A construction of stone or similar materials such as concrete or brick.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 石工工程
Translation: 用石头或其他类似材料建造的建筑，如混凝土和砖块。

Code:  5079
English Term: mass media
Definition: The means of communication that reach large numbers of people, such as television, newspapers, magazines and radio.
Chinese Term: 大众传播媒体
Translation: 可延伸至大量人群的通讯传播方式，如电视，报纸，杂志和无线电广播。

Code:  5080
English Term: mass recreation
Definition: A pastime, diversion, exercise or other means of enjoyment and relaxation that is shared with or performed by a large number of people.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 大众娱乐
Translation: 被大量人群分享或从事的娱乐、消遣、健身活动。

Code:  5083
English Term: mass transport (physics)
Definition: The movement of matter in a medium.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 质量输送
Translation: 在媒介中物质的运动。

Code:  5086
English Term: material
Definition: The substance of which a product is made or composed.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 材料
Translation: 制造或组成产品的物质。

Code:  5090
English Term: material life cycle
Definition: All the stages involved in the manufacturing, distribution and retail, use and re-use and maintenance, recycling and waste management of materials. (Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 材料生命周期
Translation: 涉及材料的制造、分发、零售、使用、再利用和维护、回收和废物管理等所有阶段。

Code:  5093
English Term: materials science
Definition: The study of the nature, behaviour, and use of materials applied to science and technology.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 材料科学
Translation: 研究应用于科学技术的材料的性质、性能和用途。

Code:  13219
English Term: materials technology
Definition: Any technical means or equipment used for the production and optimization of material goods that consist of any of a diverse range of properties, either alone or in combination, such as glass, metal, plastics and ceramics.(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 材料工艺学
Translation: 一些用于材料商品生产和优化的技术手段和装备，这些商品由多样的材料性能组成，它们或单独存在或组合而成，如玻璃，铁，塑料和陶器。

Code:  5097
English Term: mathematical analysis
Definition: The branch of mathematics most explicitly concerned with the limit process or the concept of convergence; includes the theories of differentiation, integration and measure, infinite series, and analytic functions.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 数学分析
Translation: 数学的一个分支，主要涉及有限过程或收敛概念，包括微分、积分和测度、无穷级数以及解析函数理论。

Code:  5099
English Term: mathematical method
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 数学法
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5107
English Term: maximum admissible concentration
Definition: The maximum exposure to a physical or chemical agent allowed in an 8-hour work day to prevent disease or injury.(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 最大容许浓度
Translation: 8小时工作日中为避免致病或伤害而允许的最大可接触的物理或化学药剂量。

Code:  5108
English Term: maximum immission concentration
Definition: The maximum concentration of air polluting substances in the free environment whose impact when of specified duration and frequency is not objectionable to man, fauna and flora.(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 最大注入浓度
Translation: 特定时段里自由环境中空气污染物的影响不至于引起人类和动植物发生不良反应的最大浓度。

Code:  5110
English Term: meadow
Definition: Strictly a term for a field of permanent grass used for hay, but also applied to rich, waterside grazing areas that are not suitable for arable cultivation.(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 草地
Translation: 该词严格上指制作干草的固定草场区，也可应用于不宜耕种的丰草富水的放牧区。
Code:  13165
English Term: means of agricultural production
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 农业生产方式
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  13313
English Term: means of communication
Definition: The agents, instruments, methods or resources used to impart or interchange thoughts, opinions or information.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 通讯方式
Translation: 代理与仪器间用来传递或交换思想、观点或信息的方法或资源。

Code:  5119
English Term: measuring
Definition: The ability of the analytical method or protocol to quantify as well as identify the presence of the substance in question.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 测量
Translation: 量化和识别物质的分析方法或协议的能力。

Code:  10088
English Term: measuring instrument
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 测量仪器
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5122
English Term: measuring method
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 测量方法
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5123
English Term: measuring programme
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 测量规划
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5124
English Term: meat
Definition: The edible flesh of animals, especially that of mammals as opposed to that of fish or a nut.(Source: AMHER /  MGH)
Chinese Term: 肉
Translation: 可食用的动物肉，尤指相对于鱼类或坚果的哺乳动物。

Code:  5128
English Term: mechanical engineering
Definition: The branch of engineering concerned with the design, construction, and operation of machines.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 机械工程
Translation: 工程学的分支主要涉及机器的设计、制造和操作。

Code:  13223
English Term: mechanical equipment
Definition: Machines and tools employed in manual and mechanical labour. (Source: AMHERa)
Chinese Term: 机械装备
Translation: 手工和体力劳动中使用的机器和工具。

Code:  12514
English Term: mechanical industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of enterprises is engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of mechanical apparatuses for commercial or industrial usage.(Source: SIC)
Chinese Term: 机械工业
Translation: 由从事机械设备的设计、制造和营销的企业而形成的经济部门。

Code:  11912
English Term: mechanical vibration
Definition: A motion, usually unintentional and often undesirable, of parts of machines and structures.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 机械振动
Translation: 一种机器和结构部分的运动，通常是偶然的、不合需要的。

Code:  5135
English Term: medical science
Definition: The science and art of treating and healing.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 医学
Translation: 治疗和康复的科学技术。

Code:  5138
English Term: medicinal plant
Definition: Plants having therapeutic properties.(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 药用植物
Translation: 具有治疗功能的植物。

Code:  5144
English Term: medicine (practice)
Definition: The science and art of treating and healing.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 医学（实践）
Translation: 治疗和康复的科学技术。

Code:  5145
English Term: Mediterranean Area
Definition: The collective islands and countries of the inland sea between Europe, Africa and Asia that is linked to the Atlantic Ocean at its western end by the Strait of Gibraltar and includes the Tyrrhenian, Adriatic, Aegean and Ionian seas.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 地中海地区
Translation: 位于欧洲、非洲和亚洲间的内陆海的一些岛屿和国家,其西部由直布罗陀海峡连接到大西洋,包括伊特鲁里亚海、亚得里亚海、爱琴海及尼亚爱奥尼亚海。

Code:  12063
English Term: Mediterranean climate
Definition: A type of climate characterized by hot, dry, sunny summers and a winter rainy season; basically, this is the opposite of a monsoon climate. Also known as etesian climate.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 地中海气候
Translation: 一种气候特点,夏季炎热干燥、冬季多雨,基本上,这是相反的季风气候。也称为季风气候。

Code:  10695
English Term: Mediterranean forest
Definition: Type of forest found in the Mediterranean area comprising mainly xerophilous evergreen trees. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 地中海森林
Translation:位于地中海地区的森林类型，主要包括适旱的常绿树木。

Code:  14844
English Term: Mediterranean Sea
Definition: The largest inland sea between Europe, Africa and Asia, linked to the Atlantic Ocean at its western end by the Strait of Gibraltar, including the Tyrrhenian, Adriatic, Aegean and Ionian seas, and major islands such as Sicily, Sardina, Corsica, Crete, Malta and Cyprus.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 地中海
Translation: 位于欧洲、非洲和亚洲之间的最大的内陆海，其西部由直布罗陀海峡连接到大西洋,包括伊特鲁里亚海、亚得里亚海、爱琴海及尼亚爱奥尼亚海及主要岛屿西西里岛、科西嘉岛、克里特岛、马耳他和塞浦路斯。

Code:  5147
English Term: Mediterranean wood
Definition: A plant formation found in the Mediterranean area comprising mainly lowgrowing, xerophilous evergreen trees and shrubs. It results mainly from the deterioration of the original vegetation by grazing and burning.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 地中海木材
Translation: 在地中海地区发现的植物形式，主要由低矮的、适旱的常绿乔木和灌木组成,这是由于放牧和燃烧引起的原始植被恶化所造成。

Code:  5148
English Term: melting
Definition: A change of the state of a substance from the solid phase to the liquid phase. Also known as fusion.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 融化
Translation: 物质状态由固态变为液态。也称为熔化。

Code: 5150
English Term: membrane
Definition: A thin tissue that encloses or lines biological cells, organs, or other structures. It consists of a double layer of lipids with protein molecules between the two layers. Membranes are permeable to water and fat-soluble substances but not to such polar molecules as sugars.(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 膜
Translation: 封装或填装了生物细胞、器官或者其他结构的一种薄的组织。它由两层之间蛋白质分子的双倍类脂组成。膜可透过水和脂溶性的物质，但不是象糖这样的极性分子。

Code:  5152
English Term: mental effect
Definition:
Chinese Term: 心理效应
Translation:

Code:  11294
English Term: merchant shipping
Definition: Transportation of persons and goods by means of ships travelling along fixed navigation routes.(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 商船运输
Translation: 沿着固定航行路线运输人和货物的交通方式。

Code:  5154
English Term: mercury
Definition: A heavy silvery-white toxic liquid metallic element occurring principally in cinnabar: used in thermometers, barometers, mercury-vapour lamps, and dental amalgams.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 汞；水银
Translation: 一种主要存在于赤色硫化水银矿中的深银白色的有毒的液体金属元素，用于温度计，气压表，水银蒸气灯和牙科用汞化物。

Code:  5155
English Term: mercury contamination
Definition: The presence and release into the air, water and soil of mercury, a naturally occurring heavy metal element, by both natural occurrences such as vaporization and human activities such as burning coal, mining and smelting.(Source: FFD / EEN)
Chinese Term: 汞污染
Translation: 天然重金属元素汞,一般通过自然现象,如蒸发和煤炭燃烧、采矿及冶炼等人类活动出现和释放到空气、水和土壤中。

Code:  5161
English Term: metabolism
Definition: All the chemical reactions that take place in a living organism, comprising both anabolism and catabolism. Basal metabolism is the energy exchange of an animal at rest. Catabolism is the synthesis of complex molecules from simpler ones. Catabolism is the breaking down by organisms of complex molecules into simpler ones with the liberation of energy.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 新陈代谢
Translation: 发生在一个生物有机体的所有的化学反应,包括: 合成代谢和分解代谢。基础代谢是动物静止时的能量交换。合成代谢是简单分子到复杂分子的合成。分解代谢是由复杂分子的有机体通过能量释放而分解转化为简单分子。

Code:  5163
English Term: metabolism of pesticides
Definition: The sum of chemical reactions, including both synthesis and breakdown, that occurs in substances or mixtures intended to prevent, destroy or mitigate pests that are directly or indirectly detrimental to harvest crops and other humans interests.(Source: SOI / TOE / IPC / DOE)
Chinese Term: 杀虫剂的代谢
Translation: 化学反应的总和,包括合成和分解,发生于物质或混合物,为了防止或减轻害虫的直接或间接地不利于收割农作物和其他人类利益的破坏。

Code:  5165
English Term: metabolite
Definition: A product of intermediary metabolism.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 代谢物
Translation: 中间代谢产品。

Code:  5167
English Term: metainformation
Definition: Data assembled to describe or define another body of data, a document or any information element.(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term: 元信息
Translation: 数据聚集来描述或定义另一个数据体、文件或任何信息元素。

Code:  5184
English Term: metal
Definition: An opaque crystalline material usually of high strength with good electrical and thermal conductivities, ductility and reflectivity.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 金属
Translation: 一种不透明晶体材料，通常具有高强度及良好的导电性、热导率、延性和反射性。

Code:  5169
English Term: metal finishing
Definition: A process in which a chemical or some other substance is applied to metals as a way to clean, protect, alter or modify appearance or physical properties, especially surface properties.(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 金属表面处理
Translation: 一个处理过程；在这个过程中,化学或其他物质作为一种清洁、保护、改变或改善外观或物理性质的方法用于金属，特别是其表面性质。

Code: 5178
English Term: metal oxide
Definition: Any binary compound in which oxygen is combined with one or more metal atoms.(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 金属氧化物
Translation:氧结合一个或更多的金属原子的二元化合物。

Code:  5179
English Term: metal plating
Definition: Forming a thin, adherent layer of metal on an object.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 金属镀层
Translation: 在物体上形成一层薄的金属。

Code:  5180
English Term: metal product
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 金属制品
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5181
English Term: metal products industry
Definition: Industry related with the primary metal processing and fabricated metal products manufacturing. The most important end uses of the products of the metals industries are automobiles, machinery, appliances, electrical equipment, structures, furniture, and containers.(Source: PZ)
Chinese Term: 金属制品产业
Translation:与初级金属加工和装配金属制品制造相关的行业。最重要的产业制品的终端用户是汽车、机械、家电、机电设备、建筑、家具、集装箱。

Code:  5186
English Term: metal smelting
Definition: A metallurgical process in which ore mixtures are heated above melting point to extract or yield a crude metal.(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 金属冶炼
Translation: 一个冶金过程,在这个过程中, 矿石混合物被加热高于熔点以便提取或生成粗金属。

Code:  12382
English Term: metal waste
Definition: Metal material discarded during manufacturing or processing operations which cannot be directly fed back into the operation; Worn or discarded metal materials removed from service at the end of its useful life.(Source: GMR)
Chinese Term: 金属废料
Translation: 制造、加工处理过程中被废弃的、不能直接回流使用的金属材料；达到其服务使用寿命的旧的或丢弃的金属材料。

Code:  5187
English Term: metal working
Definition:
Chinese Term: 金属加工
Translation:

Code:  5171
English Term: metallic mineral
Definition: Minerals containing metals, such as bauxite, pyrite, etc.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 金属矿物
Translation: 含有金属的矿物,如铝矾土、黄铁矿等等。

Code:  5175
English Term: metallurgical industry
Definition: Industry concerned with the extraction, refining, alloying and fabrication of metals.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 冶金工业
Translation:涉及金属的提取、精炼、合金和制造的产业。

Code:  5193
English Term: meteorological disaster
Definition: Violent, sudden and destructive change to the environment related to, produced by, or affecting the earth's atmosphere, especially the weather-forming processes.(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 气象灾害
Translation: 有关或者影响了地球大气的极端的、突发的和有破坏性的环境变化，尤其是在气候的形成过程。

Code:  5194
English Term: meteorological forecasting
Definition: A branch of science that studies the dynamics of the atmosphere and the direct effects of the atmosphere upon the Earth's surface, oceans and inhabitants, focusing particularly on weather and weather conditions.(Source: INP / NOA / EEN)
Chinese Term: 天气预报
Translation: 研究地表、海洋和居民环境以上的上大气力学及其直接效应的一个科学的分支， 特别集中于天气和天气条件。

Code:  5195
English Term: meteorological parameter
Definition: Variables, such as pressure, temperature, wind strength, humidity, etc. from which conclusions as to the forthcoming weather are drawn.(Source: UVAROVa)
Chinese Term: 气象参数
Translation: 一些变量，如压力、温度、风强度、湿度等，由此可推断即将到来的天气变化情况。

Code:  5196
English Term: meteorological phenomenon
Definition: Phenomena which occur in the troposphere and stratosphere, such as precipitations, wind, temperature, etc. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 气象现象
Translation:在对流层和平流层内发生的现象，例如降雨、刮风、温度等等

Code:  10031
English Term: meteorological research
Definition: Study of meteorological elements such as wind speed and direction, air temperature and humidity, atmospheric pressure, precipitation, evaporation, solar radiation, visibility and cloud cover in order to collect data for weather forecast or for specific research purposes. (Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 气象研究
Translation: 气象要素(例如风速、风向、气温、湿度、大气压、降雨、蒸发、太阳辐射、能见度和云层)的研究，为天气预报或者特定研究目的而收集数据。

Code:  5197
English Term: meteorology
Definition: The science concerned with the atmosphere and its phenomena. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 气象学
Translation: 研究涉及大气和它的现象的科学。

Code:  5199
English Term: methane
Definition: A colourless, odourless, and tasteless gas, lighter than air and reacting violently with chlorine and bromine in sunlight, a chief component of natural gas; used as a source of methanol, acetylene, and carbon monoxide. Also known as methyl hydride. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 甲烷
Translation: 一种无色、无味的气体，比空气轻、日照时与氯、溴可发生剧烈反应，天然气的主要成分；作为乙炔、甲醇、一氧化碳的一个来源。也称为氢化甲基。

Code:  12587
English Term: methanisation
Definition: The process of deriving methane from any source, including livestock manure, landfills, coal mines, etc. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 甲烷化
Translation: 从任何来源得到甲烷的过程，包括家畜肥料，填充垃圾，煤矿等等。

Code:  13088
English Term: method
Definition: A way of proceeding or doing something, especially a systematic or regular one. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 方法
Translation: 一种行动或者做事的方式，特别是系统的或者有规律的方式。

Code:  5203
English Term: methodology
Definition: The system of methods and principles used in a particular discipline. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 方法论
Translation: 特定学科中使用的系统的方法和原则。

Code:  11702
English Term: metrology
Definition: The science of measurement. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 度量衡学
Translation: 关于度量的科学。

Code:  5210
English Term: metropolis
Definition: A term applied loosely to any large city, but specifically to that city in a country which is the seat of government, of ecclesiastical authority, or of commercial activity. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 大都市
Translation: 一个不严谨地用于任何大城市的术语，但特指在一个国家政府或教会当局或商业中心所在地的城市。

Code:  5215
English Term: microbial resource
Definition: Any available source of supply derived from microbes, which would be used for beneficial purposes, such as for the production of food substances and drugs. (Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 微生物资源
Translation: 任何可用的来自微生物的供应源，它将被用于有益的目的，比如食品和药物的生产。

Code:  5216
English Term: microbiological analysis
Definition: Analysis for the identification of viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 微生物分析
Translation: 分析鉴定病毒、细菌、真菌和寄生虫。

Code:  5218
English Term: microbiology
Definition: The science and study of microorganisms, including protozoans, algae, fungi, bacteria, viruses, and rickettsiae. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微生物学
Translation: 微生物的科学和研究，包括原生动物、藻类、细菌、菌类、病毒和立克次体。

Code:  5219
English Term: microclimate
Definition: The local, rather uniform climate of a specific place or habitat, compared with the climate of the entire area of which it is a part.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微气候
Translation: 与整个地区的气候相比较，是一个具体的地方或者栖息地的部分气候。

Code:  5220
English Term: microclimate effect
Definition:
Chinese Term: 微气候效应
Translation:

Code:  5221
English Term: microclimatology
Definition: The study of a microclimate, including the study of profiles of temperature, moisture and wind in the lowest stratum of air, the effects of the vegetation and of shelterbelts, and the modifying effects of towns and buildings. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微气候学
Translation: 微气候的研究，包括温度档案、空气最低层里的水分和风、植物和防护林带的影响以及城镇和建筑变化效应的研究。

Code:  5222
English Term: microcomputer
Definition: A microprocessor combined with input/output interface devices, some type of external memory, and the other elements required to form a working computer system; it is smaller, lower in cost, and usually slower than a minicomputer. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微型计算机
Translation: 一个结合了输入/输出接口设备的微处理器、一些外部存储器和其它所需的要素形成的工作计算机系统；它比一台小型计算机体积小、造价低，速度通常慢于小型机。

Code:  5224
English Term: microecosystem
Definition: A small-scale, simplified, experimental ecosystem, laboratory- or field- based, which may be: a) derived directly from nature (e.g. when samples of pond water are maintained subsequently by the input of artificial light and gas-exchange); or b) built up from axenic cultures (a culture of an organism that consists of one type of organism only, i.e. that is free from any contaminating organism) until the required conditions of organisms and environment are achieved. Also known as microcosm. (Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 微生态系统
Translation: 小规模的、简化的、实验性的生态系统，实验室或者基于场地的，这可能是： a)直接从自然界得到(例如池塘水的样本因为输入人造光和气体交换而维持)； 或者b)建立在无异种生物混杂的文化 (只由一类生物体组成的一个生物体的文化， 即没有任何污染生物体)上直到生物体和环境要求的条件被取得为止。又叫微观世界。

Code:  5225
English Term: microelectronics
Definition: The technology of constructing circuits and devices in extremely small packages by various techniques. Also known as microminiaturization; microsystem electronics. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微电子学
Translation: 以各种各样的方法在极其小的封装里建造电路和电子设备的技术。 又称微小型化、微型电子系统。

Code:  5226
English Term: microfiltration
Definition: The separation or removal from a liquid of particulates and microorganisms in the size range of 0.1 to 0.2 microns in diameter. (Source: WQA)
Chinese Term: 微孔过滤
Translation: 从液体中在直径0.1到0.2微米的尺寸范围内分离或者移除微粒和微生物。

Code:  5228
English Term: micro-organism
Definition: A microscopic organism, including bacteria, protozoans, yeast, viruses, and algae. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微生物
Translation: 一种微小生物体，包括细菌、原生动物、酵母、病毒和藻类。

Code:  5229
English Term: micropollutant
Definition: Pollutant which exists in very small traces in water. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 微量污染物
Translation: 存在于水中非常小的痕迹的污染物。

Code:  5230
English Term: microscopy
Definition: The interpretative application of microscope magnification to the study of materials that cannot be properly seen by the unaided eye. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 显微镜学
Translation:在视觉不能完全认知的材料研究方面解释显微镜放大功能的应用。

Code:  5231
English Term: microwave
Definition: An electromagnetic wave which has a wavelength between about 0.3 and 30 centimeters, corresponding to frequencies of 1-100 gigahertz; however there are no sharp boundaries between microwaves and infrared and radio waves. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 微波
Translation:  波长大约在0.3 和30厘米之间的电磁波，对应1-100千兆赫范围的频率；但是微波、红外和无线电波之间没有明显的界限。

Code:  5234
English Term: migrant labour
Definition: Temporary employment performed by persons who move from place to place, such as agricultural workers following crop seasons. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 移民劳工
Translation: 承担临时性工作的流动人员，例如庄稼收割季节后的农业工人。

Code:  5238
English Term: migratory bird
Definition: Birds which migrate in a body.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 候鸟
Translation: 全体移栖的鸟类。

Code:  10305
English Term: migratory fish
Definition: Fishes that migrate in a body, often between breeding places and winter feeding grounds. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 回游鱼类
Translation: 全体迁移的鱼类，迁移经常发生在繁殖地和冬季食物区之间。

Code: 5239
English Term: migratory species
Definition:
Chinese Term: 迁徙物种
Translation:

Code:  5243
English Term: military activities
Definition: Actions and movements pertaining to or conducted by the armed forces.
Chinese Term: 军事活动
Translation: 与军队有关或被军队指挥的行动和活动。

Code:  5245
English Term: military air traffic
Definition: Air traffic of or relating to the armed forces.
Chinese Term: 军用空中交通
Translation: 军事空中交通或与武装力量有关的航空交通。

Code:  5241
English Term: military aspects
Definition:
Chinese Term: 军事方面
Translation:

Code:  13220
English Term: military equipment
Definition: Equipment necessary to the performance of military activities, either combat or noncombat. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 军事装备
Translation: 执行军事活动必须的设备，或战斗设备或非战斗设备。

Code:  5253
English Term: military zone
Definition: Area whose utilization is exclusively reserved to the army.(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 军事区
Translation: 专属军队的使用区域。

Code:  5254
English Term: milk
Definition: The whitish fluid secreted by the mammary gland for the nourishment of the young; composed of carbohydrates, proteins, fats. mineral salts, vitamins, and antibodies.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 乳汁
Translation: 乳腺分泌的作为幼崽食物的白色液体； 由碳水化合物、蛋白质、脂肪、矿物质盐、维生素和抗体组成。

Code:  5258
English Term: mill
Definition: A building where grain is crushed into flour. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 磨坊
Translation: 谷类被压(碾)成面粉的地方。

Code:  5261
English Term: mine
Definition: An opening or excavation in the earth for extracting minerals. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 矿山
Translation: 为选出矿物质而进行的开采或者挖掘。

Code:  5262
English Term: mine filling
Definition: Filling of disused mines with soil, crushed stone, or waste materials in order to restore the geological, agricultural and landscape features of the concerned area. (Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term: 矿山回填
Translation: 为了恢复有关地区的地质、农业和景观，对废弃的矿山回填土壤、碎石或者废料。

Code:  5277
English Term: mineral
Definition: A naturally occurring substance with a characteristic chemical composition expressed by a chemical formula; may occur as individual crystals or may be disseminated in some other material or rock. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 矿石
Translation: 可由化学式表示的一种典型化学物的天然物质；可能作为单个的晶体出现或者星散分布于其它材料或者岩石里。

Code:  11201
English Term: mineral conditioner
Definition: Any naturally occurring inorganic substances with a definite chemical composition and usually of crystalline structure, such as rocks, which are used to stabilize soil, improving its resistance to erosion, texture and permeability. (Source: RHW / SOI)
Chinese Term: 矿石土壤改良剂
Translation: 任何具有确定化学成分的天然无机物，通常是晶体结构，如岩石，可用来使土壤稳定，改进其抗腐蚀、质地和渗透性的能力。

Code:  5264
English Term: mineral deposit
Definition: A mass of naturally occurring mineral material, e.g. metal ores or nonmetallic mineral, usually of economic value, without regard to mode of origin. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 矿床
Translation: 大量的天然矿物质，如金属或非金属矿产，通常考虑经济价值而不管来源方式。

Code:  5265
English Term: mineral extraction
Definition: The process of extracting metallic or nonmetallic mineral deposits from the Earth. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 采矿
Translation: 从地球提取金属或者非金属矿产的过程。

Code:  5267
English Term: mineral fibre
Definition: A fiber manufactured from glass, rock, or slag generally for use in fabricating heat insulation. (Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 矿物纤维
Translation: 从玻璃、岩石或者矿渣中加工而来的纤维，通常用于制造热绝缘材料。

Code:  5268
English Term: mineral industry
Definition: Industry for the exploitation of minerals from soil deposits by underground excavations or open workings, employing adequate plants and equipment. (Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 矿产业
Translation: 采用适当的设施和设备从土壤沉积的地下挖掘或露天开采矿物的产业。

Code:  11226
English Term: mineral matter
Definition: Inorganic materials having a distinct chemical composition, characteristic crystalline structure, colour, and hardness.(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 矿物质
Translation: 具有独特化学成分、特色晶体结构、色彩和硬度的无机材料。

Code:  12394
English Term: mineral oil
Definition: Oil which derives from petroleum and is made up of hydrocarbons. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 矿油
Translation: 来自石油，由碳氢化合物构成。

Code:  11643
English Term: mineral pollution
Definition: Pollution deriving from all classes of mining operations and having an adverse effect on aquatic life, water supplies and the recreational use of waters.(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 矿物污染
Translation: 污染源于各类采矿业务，对水生生物、供水和水的休养使用产生不利影响。

Code:  5274
English Term: mineral resource
Definition: Valuable mineral deposits of an area that are presently recoverable and may be so in the future; includes known ore bodies and potential ore.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 矿物资源
Translation:目前或可能在将来可回收有价值矿藏的区域，包括已知的矿体和潜在的矿石。

Code:  12383
English Term: mineral waste
Definition: Waste material resulting from ore extraction that is usually left on the soil surface.(Source: GREMES)
Chinese Term: 矿渣
Translation:  矿石提取中产生的废料，通常遗留在土壤表面。

Code:  5279
English Term: mineral water
Definition: Water containing naturally or artificially supplied minerals or gases. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 矿泉水
Translation: 含天然或人工矿物质或气体的水。

Code:  5269
English Term: mineralisation
Definition: The process of fossilization whereby inorganic materials replace the organic constituent of an organism.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 矿化作用
Translation: 化石化现象，使无机材料代替有机体的有机组成部分的过程。

Code:  5270
English Term: mineralogy
Definition: The science which concerns the study of natural inorganic substances called minerals.  (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 矿物学
Translation:  研究涉及天然无机物即矿物质的科学。

Code:  5282
English Term: minimal cost planning
Definition: The process of making arrangements or preparations to facilitate the production of goods or services at an output that would require the lowest possible expenditure of money, time or labor.(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 最低成本规划
Translation:  在商品生产和服务的筹备和准备过程中，要求使用尽可能最低的成本、时间或劳动力支出。

Code:  5283
English Term: minimisation of damage
Definition: The activity of reducing the harm or injury done to the environment or ecosystem.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 损失最小化
Translation: 减少对环境或生态系统伤害或损害的活动。

Code:  14837
English Term: mining
Definition: The act, process or industry of extracting coal, ores, etc. from the earth.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 采矿
Translation: 从地球中开采煤、矿石等的行为、过程或产业。

Code:  5286
English Term: mining district
Definition: A district where mineral exploitation is performed.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 采矿区
Translation: 在其中进行矿产开采的区域。

Code:  5287
English Term: mining engineering
Definition: Engineering concerned with the discovery, development and exploitation of coal, ores, and minerals, as well as the cleaning, sizing and dressing of the product.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 采矿工程
Translation:  涉及煤炭、矿石和矿物质的发现、开发和开采，及产品清洗、规格化和包装的工程。

Code:  5288
English Term: mining geology
Definition: The study of geologic aspects of mineral deposits, with particular regard to problems associated with mining. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 采矿地质学
Translation: 矿床地质方面的研究，特别考虑到与采矿有关的问题。

Code:  5289
English Term: mining industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the extraction of minerals occurring naturally, often involving quarrying, well operations, milling, exploration and development.(Source: SIC)
Chinese Term: 采矿业
Translation: 一个经济分支，在其中的商业企业主要从事天然矿产的开采，往往涉及采石、井下运作、研磨、勘探和开发。

Code:  5290
English Term: mining law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the potentially harmful activity of enterprises concerned with the extraction and processing of precious or valuable metals.(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 矿业法
Translation: 由政府规定的监管与开采和加工宝石或贵重金属有关企业的潜在有害活动的具有约束力的法规或规则。

Code:  13202
English Term: mining product
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 矿产品
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5293
English Term: mining regulation
Definition: A rule or order prescribed by government or management to promote the safety, legality or ecological responsibility of any aspect of the process or industry of ore extraction.(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 矿业法规
Translation: 由政府规定的管理规则或命令，以促进矿石采掘业过程的安全性、合法性或生态责任。

Code:  5295
English Term: mining site restoration
Definition: Mining is an intensive type of land use with potential for environmental impact over a limited area. When closure occurs, it should address both environmental and safety aspects. Mine reclamation is an ongoing program designed to restore to an acceptable state the physical, chemical and biological quality or potential of air, land and water regimes disturbed by mining. The objective of mine reclamation is to prevent or minimize adverse long-term environmental impacts, and create a self-sustaining ecosystem as near as practicable to what existed before the mining activity.(Source: NRCAN)
Chinese Term: 矿场复原
Translation: 矿业是超过有限的环境影响潜力的土地集约型使用。当关闭时，它应解决环境和安全方面的问题。矿山复垦是一项持续的计划，旨在恢复到物理、化学和生物质量或受开采干扰的空气、土地和水的潜能影响的可接收状态。矿山复垦的目的是防止或尽量减少不利的长期环境影响，创造一个尽可能接近存在采矿活动之前的自我维持的生态系统。

Code: 5297
English Term: mining waste
Definition: Any residue which results from the extraction of raw materials from the earth.(Source: EED / ERG)
Chinese Term: 采矿废弃物
Translation: 任何来自从地上提取原料的残留物。


Code:  5299
English Term: ministry
Definition: The body of top government administrators or other high ranking public officials that are selected by a head of state to manage certain aspects of a state's affairs, as opposed to civil servants whose tenure is unaffected by public changes resulting from democratic elections or some other process.(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 政府部门
Translation: 国家元首选择的负责管理国家事务某些方面的政府高层管理人员或其他高级官员所在部门，其公务员任命不受公众变化的民主选举或其他过程的影响。

Code:  14163
English Term: ministry building
Definition: Any structure or edifice occupied by a body of top government administrators or other high ranking public officials selected or appointed by a head of state to manage certain aspects of a state's affairs.(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 政府部门大楼
Translation: 政府部门的建筑物，所在部门的人员组成是由国家元首选择或任命的负责管理国家事务某些方面的政府高层管理人员或其他高级官员。

Code:  5303
English Term: minority
Definition: A group that is different racially, politically, etc. from a larger group of which it is a part. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 少数民族
Translation: 种族上、政治上等区别于一个大集团的团体，即它是大团体的一个组成部分。

Code:  5305
English Term: miscellaneous product
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 杂货用品
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5307
English Term: miscibility
Definition: The tendency or capacity of two or more liquids to form a uniform blend, that is, to dissolve in each other; degrees are total miscibility, partial miscibility, and immiscibility.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 可混和性
Translation: 两种或多种液体形成一个均匀的混合物的倾向或能力，即彼此溶解；混合程度分为完全相容性、部分相容性以及不溶混性。

Code:  3348
English Term: mist
Definition: Fine water droplets suspended in the air, which reduce visibility. Usually mists form at night, when the temperature falls because the sky is clear. If visibility falls below 1,000 metres, the mist becomes a fog. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 薄雾
Translation: 精细水滴悬浮在空气中，从而降低了能见度。通常在夜间天空晴朗当温度下降时形成薄雾。如果能见度低于1000米，薄雾变成了雾。

Code:  5310
English Term: mite
Definition: An order of small Arachnida with rounded bodies. Mites are very abundant in the soil, feeding on plant material and invertebrate animals. Some parasitic mites (e.g. red spider) damage crops and can be serious pests. Others cause diseases in animals. Ticks are blood-suckers, some being vectors of diseases such as Rocky Mountain spotted fever in humans and fowls, and louping ill in cattle and sheep. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 螨类
Translation: 身材滚圆的小蛛形纲。螨盛产于土壤中，以植物和无脊椎动物为食。有些寄生螨类（如红蜘蛛）损害农作物，是严重的害虫。其它可导致动物疾病，如蜱有血液吸盘可做致人类和家禽发烧的落基山斑疹和牛羊跳跃病的载体。

Code:  5311
English Term: mitigation measure
Definition: Any procedure or action undertaken to reduce the adverse impacts that a project or activity may have on the environment.(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 缓解措施
Translation: 任何以减少一个项目或活动可能对环境造成不利影响的程序或行动。

Code:  5313
English Term: mixed farming
Definition: Type of agriculture based on the combination of crop production and cattle raising.(Source: GREMES)
Chinese Term: 混合农业
Translation:  基于粮食生产和家畜饲养相结合的农业类型。

Code:  5316
English Term: mixed forest
Definition: A forest composed of several tree species.(Source: FORGOVa)
Chinese Term: 混合林
Translation:  几个树种组成的森林。

Code:  5317
English Term: mixed use area
Definition: Use of land for more than one purpose; e.g. grazing of livestock, watershed and wildlife protection, recreation, and timber production.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 混杂利用地区
Translation: 多于一个目的的土地使用，例如放牧牲畜、水域和野生动植物保护、休闲和木材生产。

Code:  13922
English Term: mixed woodland
Definition:
Chinese Term: 混合林地
Translation:

Code:  5318
English Term: mixing
Definition: The intermingling of different materials to produce a homogeneous mixture.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 混合
Translation: 不同的材料混合，产生均质的混合物。

Code: 5322
English Term: mobile home
Definition: Living quarters mounted on wheels and capable of being towed by a motor vehicle. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 活动房屋
Translation: 安装在车轮上并能被汽车拖走的住房。

Code:  13233
English Term: mode of transportation
Definition: Type of vehicle used for moving from one place to the other.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 运输方法
Translation: 用于从一个地方移到另一个地方的交通工具类型。

Code:  5325
English Term: model
Definition: 1) A representation, usually on a smaller scale, of a device, structure, etc. 2) A quantitative or mathematical representation or computer simulation which attempts to describe the characteristics or relationships of physical events. (Source: CED /  LEE)
Chinese Term: 模型
Translation: 1）通常是设备、结构等小规模的表示。2）试图描述物理事件的特征或相互关系的量化或数学表示或计算机仿真。

Code:  5327
English Term: modelling
Definition: An investigative technique using a mathematical or physical representation of a system or theory that accounts for all or some its known properties. Models are often used to test the effect of changes of system components on the overall performance of the system.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 建模
Translation:，使用系统或理论的数学或物理的表示方式来说明其全部或部分已知性质的一种研究技术。模型经常被用来测试系统组件的变化对系统的整体性能的影响。

Code:  5332
English Term: moisture
Definition: 1) The water vapour content of the atmosphere, or the total water substances (gaseous, liquid and solid) present in a given volume of air. 2) Water that is dispersed through a gas in the form of water vapour or small droplets, dispersed through a solid, or condensed on the surface of a solid. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 湿度
Translation: 1) 大气中水汽物或总的水物质（气体、液体和固体）出现在给定空气体积中的含量。2) 分散为水蒸汽或小液滴或在固体表面凝结形式的水。


Code:  5333
English Term: molecular biology
Definition: The study of the chemical structures and processes of biological phenomena at the molecular level; the discipline is particularly concerned with the study of proteins, nucleic acids, and enzymes, the macromolecules essential to life processes. It seeks to understand the molecular basis of genetic processes. Techniques used include X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 分子生物学
Translation: 在分子水平上研究化学结构和生物现象过程；此学科特别关注的是蛋白质、核酸、酶、生命过程必不可少的大分子的研究。它的目的是了解对遗传过程的分子基础。使用的技术包括X -射线衍射和电子显微镜。

Code:  5339
English Term: mollusc
Definition: Any of various invertebrates having a soft unsegmented body and often a shell, secreted by a fold of skin.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 软体动物
Translation: 各种有软的未分段身体并常常隐藏在折叠皮肤有壳的无脊椎动物，。

Code:  5343
English Term: monetary assessment
Definition: Financial determination, adjustment, estimation, or appraisal for purposes of levying a tax, charge or fine.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 货币评估
Translation: 为征收税款、收费或罚款目的的金融决定、调整、估计或评价。

Code:  13151
English Term: monetary economics
Definition: The study, policies or system of institutions and procedures by which a country or region's commerce is supplied with notes, coins, bank deposits or other equivalent mediums of exchange. (Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 货币经济学
Translation: 媒介于一个国家或地区的贸易，供应纸币、硬币、银行存款或其它等值交换的研究、政策或程序制度体系。

Code:  13150
English Term: monetary relations
Definition: The different modes in which countries, nations, etc., are brought together by financial, currency, or pecuniary interests.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 货币关系
Translation: 国家、民族等通过金融、货币或金钱利益而联合的不同模式。

Code:  13246
English Term: money market
Definition: A financial market that trades Treasury bills, commercial paper and other short-term financial instruments. This market is often used by businesses when they need short-term funds to bridge the gap between paying operating costs and collecting revenue from product sales. As such, the term "money" in money market indicates that businesses are using highly liquid instruments to raise the money need for operating expenses.(Source: AMOS2)
Chinese Term: 金融市场
Translation: 交易国库券、商业票据和其他短期金融工具的金融市场。这个市场经常使用的业务是需要短期资金来弥补经营成本和收取产品销售收入的缺口。因此，所谓在货币市场的“货币”表示企业使用高流动性的手段来提高经营费用的资金需求。

Code:  5346
English Term: monitoring
Definition: To check regularly in order to perceive change in some quality or quantity.(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 监测
Translation: 定期检查，以便察觉某些质量或数量的变化。

Code:  5347
English Term: monitoring criterion
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 监测准则
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5348
English Term: monitoring data
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 监测数据
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5349
English Term: monitoring equipment
Definition: Specific equipment used in remote sensing.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 监测设备
Translation:用于遥感的特定设备。

Code: 5350
English Term: monitoring network
Definition: Interconnected group of monitoring stations for the surveillance of pollution.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 监测网络
Translation: 为监视污染情况而互联的监控站组。

Code:  5352
English Term: monitoring station
Definition: Station where the presence, effect, or level of any polluting substance in air or water, noise and blasting, radiation, transport movements, land subsidence, or change in the character of vegetation are measured quantitatively or qualitatively.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 监测站
Translation: 定量或定性测量在空气或水中、噪音和爆破、辐射、交通活动、地面沉降、植被特征变化的任何污染物的出现、影响或水平的工作场所。

Code:  5353
English Term: monitoring system
Definition: A coordinated body of sensory and communications devices that observes, detects or records the outputs or operations of any natural or artificial system in order to construct a history or future of events.(Source: APD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 监测系统
Translation: 协调一致的传感和通讯设备，负责观察、检测或记录任何天然或人工系统的输出或操作，以便构建事件发生的历史或预测未来走势。

Code:  5354
English Term: monitoring technique
Definition: Techniques employed in the process of checking, observing and measuring events, processes or physical, chemical, biological and environmental phenomena.(Source: ZINZANa /  DUNSTEa)
Chinese Term: 监测技术
Translation: 检查、观察和测量其事件，流程或物理、化学、生物和环境的现象的过程中使用的技术手段。

Code:  5357
English Term: monopoly
Definition: The market condition where a particular commodity or service has only one seller, either because the seller has exclusive possession of an essential input or because large economies of scale inhibit the entrance of a competitor into the market.(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 垄断
Translation: 在某一商品或者服务中只有一个卖方的市场条件，或者是因为卖方独家拥有一种重要生产材料，或因为规模大的经济体抑制竞争者进入市场。

Code:  5360
English Term: monument
Definition: An object, especially large and made of stone, built to remember and show respect to a person or group of people, or a special place made for this purpose.(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 纪念碑
Translation: 一个物体，特别是大石头制作的，建造目的是为了追忆和尊重一个人或一群人，或一个为此目的而设的特殊地方。

Code:  5362
English Term: moor
Definition: A tract of unenclosed waste ground, usually covered with heather, coarse grass, bracken, and moss.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 荒野
Translation: 大片裸露的荒地，通常覆盖着石南花、野草、蕨和青苔。

Code:  5364
English Term: moral persuasion
Definition: Appealing to the ethical principles or beliefs of an adversary or the public to convince the adversary to change behavior or attitudes.(Source: MLK)
Chinese Term: 道义劝说
Translation: 诉诸于当事人或公众的道德原则或信仰来说服当事人来改变行为或态度。

Code:  5369
English Term: morphology
Definition: The branch of biology concerned with the form and structure of organisms.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 形态学
Translation: 与有机体的形式和结构有关的生物分支。

Code:  5371
English Term: mortality
Definition: The number of deaths occurring in a given population for a given period of time.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 死亡率
Translation:  给定人口的一个特定时期的死亡数量。

Code:  14906
English Term: mosaic
Definition: A composite photograph consisting of separate aerial photographs of overlapping surface areas, producing an overall image of a surface area too large to be depicted in a single aerial photograph.(Source: OED / WHIT)
Chinese Term: 拼接
Translation: 一种由多张具有重叠部分的航摄照片组成的合成照片，其产生的一个整体图像面积太大以致无法在单张的航摄照片中描绘。

Code:  5377
English Term: moss
Definition: Any plant of the class Bryophyta, occurring in nearly all damp habitats.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 苔藓
Translation: 任何苔藓类植物，几乎出现在所有潮湿的环境。

Code:  11007
English Term: motivation of administrative acts
Definition: The underlying reason or cause, a psychological or social factor, that incites or stimulates managers, executives or supervisors to complete tasks that achieve organizational or company goals.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:  行政行为动机
Translation: 激励或鼓舞管理人员、行政人员或监管人员完成任务以实现组织或公司目标的心理或社会因素的原由。

Code:  5388
English Term: motor fuel
Definition: Any gaseous or liquid flammable fuel that burns in an internal combustion engine.(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 发动机燃料
Translation: 任何内燃机使用的可燃气体或液体燃料。

Code:  5390
English Term: motor vehicle
Definition: A road vehicle driven by a motor or engine, especially an internal-combustion engine. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 机动车
Translation:  由马达或引擎，特别是内燃发动机，驱动的道路车辆。

Code:  5391
English Term: motor vehicle emission
Definition: The formation and discharge of gaseous and particulate pollutants into the environment chiefly from car, truck and bus exhaust.(Source: DDP)
Chinese Term: 机动车辆排放物
Translation: 进入环境的气态和颗粒污染物的排放主要来自汽车、卡车和公共汽车废气。

Code:  5392
English Term: motor vehicle exhaust gas
Definition: Gases vented to the atmosphere by internal-combustion-engine driven vehicles.
Chinese Term: 机动车辆废气
Translation:  排放到大气中的气体产生于内燃机引擎驱动的车辆。

Code:  5393
English Term: motor vehicle industry
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 机动车辆工业
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  12022
English Term: motor vehicle pollution
Definition: Pollution caused by gases vented to the atmosphere by internal-combustion-engine driven vehicles.
Chinese Term: 机动车污染
Translation:  污染由内燃发动机驱动的车辆排放气体到大气中造成。

Code:  5384
English Term: motorcycle
Definition:
Chinese Term: 摩托车
Translation:

Code:  5395
English Term: motorway
Definition: A wide road built for fast moving traffic travelling long distances, with a limited number of points at which drivers can enter and leave it. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 高速公路
Translation: 为快速长途交通旅行而修建的宽路，司机可驾车由数量有限的连接点进入和离开。

Code:  5401
English Term: mountain
Definition: A feature of the earth's surface that rises high above the base and has generally steep slopes and a relatively small summit area. Mountains are an important source of water, energy, minerals, forest and agricultural products, and recreation. They are storehouses of biological diversity and endangered species and an essential part of the global ecosystem. About 10% of the world's population depend on mountain resources and nearly half of these people are affected by the degradation of mountain watershed areas.(Source: MGH /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 山
Translation: 在基础上升高并且通常有陡坡和一个相对小的山顶区的地球表面特点。 山是水、能量、矿物、森林、农产品和休闲娱乐的重要来源。 它们是生物多样性、危险物种的储藏所和全球性生态系统的主要部分。大约10%世界人口依赖于山地资源，并且几乎一半的人类受到山地区域退化的影响。

Code:  12064
English Term: mountain climate
Definition: Very generally, the climate of relatively high elevations; mountain climates are distinguished by the departure of their characteristics from those of surrounding lowlands, and the one common basis for this distinction is that of atmospheric rarefaction; aside from this, great variety is introduced by differences in latitude, elevation, and exposure to the sun; thus, there exists no single, clearly defined, mountain climate. Also known as highland climate.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 山地气候
Translation:  通常指相对高海拔的气候；山地气候由其特征而区别于周围的低地，并且此差异共同的基础是山地的大气稀薄；除此之外，山地由于纬度、海拔和阳光照射程度的不同产生了巨大的变化；因此，不存在清晰定义的山地气候。亦称高地气候。

Code:  5403
English Term: mountain ecosystem
Definition: Ecosystems found on high-mountains at low latitudes. Mountain ecosystems are very vulnerable. They are increasingly sensitive to soil erosion, landslide and rapid loss of habitat and genetic diversity. Widespread poverty and an increase in the numbers of mountain inhabitants lead to deforestation, cultivation of marginal lands, excessive livestock grazing, loss of biomass cover and other forms of environmental degradation. Because little is known about mountain ecosystems, Agenda 21 has proposed the establishment of a global mountain database. This is essential for the launch of programmes that would contribute to the sustainable development of mountain ecosystems. The proposals also focus on promoting watershed development and alternative employment for people whose livelihoods are linked to practices that degrade mountains.(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 山地生态系统
Translation:  出现于低纬度高山的生态系统。山地生态系统是易受攻击的。它们对土壤侵蚀、山崩、动植物栖息地和遗传多样性的迅速消失越来越敏感。分布广泛的贫困和山地居民数量的增长导致了砍伐森林、土地耕种、过度放牧、生物量减少和其他形式的环境退化。 由于很少有人知道山地生态系统，21世纪议程提出了创建全球性的山地数据库。这对山地生态系统的可持续发展是重要的。该提案还注重促进流域开发和生计活动与山地退化有关的人们的替代性就业问题。解决其生计活动可使山地退化的人们的替代性就业问题。

Code:  10693
English Term: mountain forest
Definition: An extensive area of woodland that is found at natural elevations usually higher than 2000 feet.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 山地林
Translation: 通常出现于高于海拔2000英尺的天然大面积林地。

Code:  11237
English Term: mountain management
Definition:
Chinese Term: 山地管理
Translation:

Code:  10236
English Term: mountain protection
Definition:
Chinese Term: 山地保护
Translation:

Code:  5409
English Term: mountain range
Definition: A single, large mass consisting of a succession of mountains or narrowly spaced mountain ridges, with or without peaks, closely related in position, direction, formation, and age.(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 山脉
Translation: 一个由连绵起伏的山地或狭窄空间的山脊组成的群山，其可有或没有高峰，它们在位置、方向、构成和形成年代方面密切相关。

Code:  14982
English Term: mountain refuge
Definition: Any shelter or protection from distress or danger located in a predominantly mountainous area.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 山地避难所
Translation: 任何主要位于山区的躲避处以防止困扰或危险。

Code:  10910
English Term: mountain resort
Definition: A place in the mountains where people spend their holidays and enjoy themselves.(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 山地度假胜地
Translation: 一个人们在山里度过假期、享受生活乐趣的地方。

Code:  5404
English Term: mountaineering
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 登山
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5405
English Term: mountainous area
Definition: Area characterized by conspicuous peaks, ridges, or mountain ranges.(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 山区
Translation:  以突兀的山峰、山脊或山脉为特点的地区。

Code:  5412
English Term: mowing
Definition: The cutting down of grass, crops or grain with a scythe or a mechanical device.(Source: AMHERa /  CEDa)
Chinese Term: 割草
Translation: 用镰刀或机械设备切割草、农作物或粮食。

Code:  5417
English Term: mud (sediment)
Definition: A mixture of clay and/or silt with water to form a plastic mass with a particle size preponderantly below 0.06 mm diameter. It is deposited in low-energy environments in lakes, estuaries and lagoons. It may also be deposited in deep-sea environments.(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 泥（沉淀物）
Translation:  粘土和/或淤泥与水的混合物，形成一个绝大多数是低于0.06毫米直径大小的塑性颗粒。它沉积在湖泊低能量环境、河口和泻湖中。它也可沉积在深海环境。

Code:  5415
English Term: mud flat
Definition: A relatively level area of fine silt along a shore (as in a sheltered estuary) or around an island, alternately covered and uncovered by the tide, or covered by shallow water.(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 泥质滩地
Translation: 一个沿海岸(如在一个封闭的河口)或岛屿的相对平坦的泥沙区域，由潮水间隔地覆盖或浅水覆盖。

Code:  5418
English Term: mulch
Definition: A layer of organic material applied to the surface of the ground to retain moisture; mulching is the spreading of leaves, straw or other loose material on the ground to prevent erosion, evaporation or freezing of plant roots.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 护根
Translation:  一层应用于地面保湿的有机材料，护根是地上的叶子、杆或其他疏松材料的扩展以防止对植物根的冲蚀、蒸发或冰冻。

Code:  5419
English Term: multilateral agreement
Definition: Multilateralism stands for a long-held but rarely achieved ideal, namely the voluntary co-operation of nations for peace and development. Multilateral initiatives are undermined or diluted by ultra-nationalist, bilateral and regional initiatives. Multilateralism may be undercut by the uncoordinated decisions of those contributing to it. Multilateralism constitutes the democracy of international society. An enlightened multilateralism enhances the specific interests of states while advancing their common cause.(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 多边协议
Translation:  多边主义代表长期坚守但很少达到的理想，即以和平与发展为目的国家间的自愿合作。多边运动受到极端民族主义、双边和地区主义的破坏或削弱。多边主义可以由它参与方做出的不对等的决定而受到削弱。多边主义构成了国际社会的民主。一个开明的多边主义在促进他们的共同事业发展的同时也加强各国的具体利益。

Code:  14869
English Term: multimedia technology
Definition: Any technical means used to combine text, sound, still or animated images and video in computers and electronic products, often allowing audience interactivity.(Source: ENC / WIS)
Chinese Term: 多媒体技术
Translation: 在电脑和电子产品中结合了文字、声音、静止或动画图像、视频的任何技术手段，常让观众互动。

Code: 5421
English Term: multinational firm
Definition: A large business company operating in several countries. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 跨国企业
Translation: 经营活动跨越几个国家的大型商业公司。

Code:  5424
English Term: multiple use management area
Definition: 1) Coordinated management for the most judicious and harmonious use of the land on a long term basis under the concept of combining two or more uses and/or purposes with attention to sustainability and nonimpairment of the natural resources and land area. 2) Use of land for more than one purpose; e.g. grazing of livestock, watershed and wildlife protection, recreation, and timber production. (Source: UNUN /  EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 多种经营管理区
Translation: 1）立足长远结合两个或更多的使用和/或用途以关注天然资源和土地面积的可持续性和未损害的理念，是最明智的、和谐的土地使用协调管理。 2）土地使用多于一个目的；例如牲畜放牧、水域和野生动植物保护、休闲娱乐和木材生产。

Code:  14898
English Term: multispectral scanner
Definition: A remote sensing term referring to a scanning radiometer that simultaneously acquires images in various wavebands at the same time. A multispectral scanner can be carried aboard an aircraft or satellite. The Landsat multispectral scanner records images in four wavebands of visible and near infrared electromagnetic radiation to enable objects with different reflectance properties to be distinguished. (Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 多谱扫描器
Translation: 一个遥感术语，指扫描辐射计，它能同时获得各种波段的图像。多光谱扫描仪可以安放在飞机或卫星上。在4个可见光和近红外波段的电磁辐射图像中陆地卫星多光谱扫描仪记录，不同对象以反射属性加以区别。

Code:  5428
English Term: municipal cleansing
Definition: The aggregation of services offered by a town or city in which streets and other public areas are kept clean, such as through trash pick-ups, street sweeping and decontamination of water, soil and other natural resources. (Source: FFD)
Chinese Term: 市政环卫
Translation: 由一个县镇或城市提供服务的集合，其中要保持街道和其他公共场所的清洁卫生，如捡拾垃圾、清扫街道及水、土壤和其他自然资源的净化。


Code:  5429
English Term: municipal cleansing service
Definition: Removal for treatment or disposal of those residues that can be regarded as waste including removal of litter from public places, public thoroughfares or the countryside. (Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 市政环卫服务
Translation: 可作为废物的残留物，包括从公共场所、公共道路或农村清除的垃圾的处置。

Code:  1426
English Term: municipal dumping
Definition: Place where a town's refuse is disposed of after it has been collected. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 市政垃圾倾倒场
Translation: 一个城市处理垃圾的地方。

Code:  11359
English Term: municipal engineering
Definition: Branch of engineering dealing with the form and functions of urban areas. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 市政工程
Translation:  处理城市构架和功能的工程分支。

Code:  10263
English Term: municipal environment plan
Definition: A formulated or systematic method for the management of a city or town's natural or ecological resources. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 市政环境规划
Translation:  城市或城镇的自然或生态资源管理的有规划的和系统的方法。

Code:  5430
English Term: municipal environmental policy
Definition: The guiding procedure, philosophy or course of action regarding the protection of natural resources in local settings, cities or towns. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 市政环境政策
Translation: 关于城市或城镇的本地环境中自然资源保护的指导程序、哲学理念或行动过程。

Code:  14418
English Term: municipal heating network
Definition: System of heating all houses in a urban district from a central source (as from hot springs in Iceland or by cooling water from a power station). (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 市政供热网络
Translation:  通过中央热源（如冰岛温泉或电站冷却水）而供热市区内所有房屋的系统。

Code:  5432
English Term: municipal law
Definition: Broadly, a law or body of laws that pertains solely to the citizens and inhabitants of a state; narrowly, a law or body of laws pertaining to towns, cities, villages and their local governments. (Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 国内法
Translation: 从广义上讲，法律或规章法规，只涉及到一个国家的公民和居民；狭义上，指有关城镇、城市、乡村和当地政府的法律或规章法规。

Code:  5433
English Term: municipal level
Definition: The jurisdiction, position or status of city, town or local government. (Source: DAM / OED)
Chinese Term: 市镇级别
Translation:  城市、城镇或当地政府的司法管辖权、地位或身份。

Code:  5437
English Term: municipal waste
Definition: The combined residential and commercial waste materials generated in a given municipal area. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 城市废料
Translation: 在某城市范围内产生的住宅和商业废料。

Code:  5439
English Term: municipal water distribution system
Definition: Any publicly or privately organized setup in which water is processed at a central plant and delivered to homes and businesses via water pipes. (Source: WQA)
Chinese Term: 城市供水系统
Translation: 任何公立或私人组织安装的系统，水在中央工厂处理并通过水管向家庭和企业传送。

Code:  5440
English Term: municipal water management
Definition: Municipal water management deals with aspects of water supply and water technology concerning planning, processing, building and producing. It also concerns the problems of waste water collection, sewage disposal, waste water treatment in rural areas, water economising measures, water body quality management.  (Source: TUBERL)
Chinese Term: 城市供水管理
Translation: 处理有关规划、加工、建造和生产等供水和水技术的城市水务管理。它还涉及污水收集、污水处置、农村地区污水处理、节水措施、水体质量管理等问题。

Code:  5431
English Term: municipality
Definition: A town, city, or other district having powers of local self-government. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 市政当局
Translation: 镇、市或其他有权力的地方自治政府。

Code:  5443
English Term: muscular system
Definition: The muscle cells, tissues, and organs that effect movement in all vertebrates. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 肌肉系统
Translation: 影响所有脊椎动物运动的肌肉细胞、组织和器官。

Code:  5444
English Term: museum
Definition: A place or building where objects of historical, artistic, or scientific interest are exhibited, preserved or studied.  (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 博物馆
Translation: 有历史、艺术或科学价值的物品展出、保存、研究的地方或建筑物。

Code:  5448
English Term: mushroom
Definition: A family of Basidiomycetes that are characterized by the production of spores on gills. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 蘑菇
Translation: 一种担子菌族，特点是在菌褶上的孢子生产。

Code:  5449
English Term: music
Definition: The artistic organization of sounds or tones that expresses ideas and emotions through the elements of rhythm, melody, harmony and tonal color.   (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:  音乐
Translation: 声音或音调通过节奏元素、旋律、和声和音色来表达思想和情感的艺术组织形式。

Code:  5450
English Term: mussel farming
Definition: Breeding of mussels for sale as food.  (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 蚌类养殖
Translation: 作为食品出售的蚌类养殖。

Code:  5452
English Term: mustelid
Definition: A large, diverse family of low-slung, long-bodied carnivorous mammals including minks, weasels, and badgers; distinguished by having only one molar in each upper jaw, and two at the most in the lower jaw. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鼬科动物
Translation: 一个大而多样化的低矮、长体形食肉哺乳动物科，包括水貂、黄鼠狼、獾等，特点是每一个上颌只有一个臼齿，在下颌最多两个。

Code:  5459
English Term: mutagen
Definition: An agent that raises the frequency of mutation above the spontaneous rate. An agent that causes changes to plants and animals, particularly to their genetic material and especially at the time of reproduction. Certain chemicals and forms of radiation are powerful mutagens that damage the DNA, or genetic material in the centre of every cell of a living organism. (Source: MGH /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 诱变剂，诱变因素
Translation: 增加突变频率而高于自发节律的药剂。药剂导致植物和动物特别是其遗传物质的变化，尤其是在繁殖的期间。某些化学物质和辐射诱变形式对DNA或每个生物体细胞中心的遗传物质造成强力突变。

Code:  14254
English Term: mutagenic substance
Definition: Agents that induce a permanent change in the genetic material. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 诱变剂
Translation: 引起遗传物质的永久性变化的制剂。

Code:  5456
English Term: mutagenicity
Definition: The property of chemical or physical agents of inducing changes in genetic material that are transmitted during cell division. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 诱变性
Translation: 导致细胞分裂时传输的遗传物质发生改变的化学或物理制剂特性。

Code:  5457
English Term: mutagenicity testing
Definition: Testing the property of a substance of being able to induce genetic mutation. (Source: CONFERa)
Chinese Term: 致突变性试验
Translation: 测试能诱导基因突变的物质的性质。

Code:  5460
English Term: mutant
Definition: An individual bearing an allele that has undergone mutation and is expressed in the phenotype. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 突变异种
Translation: 具有突变和显型表示的含有等位基因的个体。

Code:  5461
English Term: mutated micro-organisms release
Definition: The release of mutated micro-organisms creates the risk that they may exhibit some previously unknown pathogenicity, might take over from some naturally occurring bacteria (possibly having other positive functions which thus are lost) or pass on some unwanted trait to such indigenous bacteria. There is also concern that an uncontrolled genetic mutation could produce from such an engineered microorganism, a form with hazardous consequences for the environment. (Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 突变微生物
Translation: 突变微生物释放造成的风险可能会展示一些以前未知的致病性，可能会接收一些自然出现的细菌（有可能因此失去其他积极功能），或传递某些对固有细菌有害的性状。也有人担心，一个不受控制的基因突变可以生产出这样一个精心设计的微生物而对环境产生有害后果。

Code:  5462
English Term: mutation
Definition: A change in the chemical constitution of the DNA in the chromosomes of an organism: the changes are normally restricted to individual genes, but occasionally involve serious alteration to whole chromosomes. When a mutation occurs in gametes or gametocytes an inherited change may be produced in the characteristics of the organisms that develop from them. Mutation is one of the ways in which genetic variation is produced in organisms. A somatic mutation is one that occurs to a body cell, and is consequently past on to all the cells derived from it by mitosis. Natural mutations, at this stage of biological evolution, when they occur in the cells of higher animals, almost always produce deleterious characteristics. Both natural and artificial mutations can be brought about by ionizing radiation (hence the genetic and carcinogenic dangers of nuclear weapons) and by certain chemical substances called mutagens.(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 变异
Translation: 生物体中染色体DNA的化学成分的变化：变化通常限于单个基因，但偶尔涉及严重的改变整个染色体。当突变发生在配子或配子体时，遗传的变化可能产生。突变是生物体产生的遗传变异的途径之一。一个细胞体发生突变是一个体细胞，并因此传递到所有从它派生的有丝分裂细胞。自然突变，在这个生物进化阶段，当他们出现在高等动物的细胞中时，几乎总是产生有害的特性。自然和人为的突变可通过电离辐射（来自核武器的基因和致癌危险）以及某些称为诱变剂的化学物质而产生。

Code:  3528
English Term: mycete
Definition: Nucleated usually filamentous, sporebearing organisms devoid of chlorophyll. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 霉菌
Translation: 核丝状、缺乏叶绿素的芽胞生物体。

Code:  5463
English Term: mycology
Definition: The branch of botany concerned with the study of fungi. (Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 真菌学
Translation: 与菌类有关的植物学研究分支。

Code:  5465
English Term: mycorrhiza
Definition: The symbiotic association of the root of a higher plant with a fungus. In an ectotrophic mycorrhiza (e.g., heath, pine trees) the fungal mycelium covers the outside of the roots; in an endotrophic mycorrhiza (e.g. orchids) the fungus grows inside the cells of the root cortex. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 菌根
Translation: 高等植物的根与菌类的共生关系。在体外营养的菌根（例如，石南树、松树等），真菌菌丝体覆盖在根外；在体内营养的菌根（例如兰花），真菌生长在根皮层细胞内部。

Code:  10964
English Term: myth
Definition: A traditional or legendary story, usually dealing with supernatural beings, ancestors, heroes or events, that is with or without determinable basis of fact or a natural explanation, but is used to explain some practice, rite or phenomenon of nature, or to justify the existence of a social institution. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 神话
Translation: 传统或传说故事，通常涉及鬼神、祖先、英雄或其事件，无论是否有确定的事实基础或合乎常情的解释，但常用来解释一些实践、习俗或自然现象，或证明一种社会制度存在合法性。

Code:  11034
English Term: national accounting
Definition: Organised method of recording all business transactions in the national economy.
Chinese Term: 国民收入和生产核算
Translation: 记录所有在国民经济中业务往来的组织方法。

Code:  14930
English Term: national boundary
Definition: The line demarcating recognized limits of established political units. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 边境
Translation:  公认的政府单位界限的标定线。

Code:  5474
English Term: national conservation programme
Definition:
Chinese Term: 国家保护计划
Translation:

Code:  1826
English Term: national economic costs
Definition: The amount of money incurred as a result of the financial management of a nation's financial resources. (Source: EFP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 国民经济支出
Translation: 一个国家的财政资源的财务管理而产生的款项。

Code:  5475
English Term: national economy
Definition: A nation's financial resources and its financial management, with a view towards its productivity. (Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 国民经济
Translation: 一个国家的财政资源和财务管理，是其生产力的一个视角。

Code:  5476
English Term: national environmental accounting
Definition: The collection and processing of financial information regarding the costs for ecological challenges or opportunities for nations or countries. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 国民环境会计帐
Translation: 有关民族或国家的生态挑战或机会的花费的财务资料的收集和处理。

Code:  10760
English Term: national fishing reserve
Definition: Limited portion of a water body belonging to the State where angling is allowed. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 国家渔业储备
Translation: 国家所有的有限水域部分，钓鱼是允许的。

Code:  5482
English Term: national legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by the government of a sovereign state that holds force throughout the regions and territories within the government's dominion. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 国内法律
Translation:  由主权国家的政府规定的在政府管辖的整个地区实行的约束规则或法律法规。

Code:  5484
English Term: national park
Definition: Areas of outstanding natural beauty, set aside for the conservation of flora, fauna and scenery, and for recreation, if this does not conflict with the conservation objectives of the parks and their landscapes. Hunting, logging, mining, commercial fishing, agriculture and livestock grazing are all controlled within national parks, as is industrial activity. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 国家公园
Translation: 优秀自然美景地区，对植物、动物和自然风光以及休闲的保护区的保护，如果这并不抵触公园和风景区的保护目标。在国家公园，狩猎、伐木、采矿、商业捕鱼、农业和牲畜放牧都被控制，因为都是工业活动。

Code:  5486
English Term: national planning
Definition: The step by step method and process of defining, developing and outlining various possible courses of actions to meet existing or future needs, goals and objectives for a country or a large body of people associated with a particular territory, often sharing similar ethnic backgrounds, customs and language. (Source: RHW / BLD)
Chinese Term: 国家规划
Translation: 一步一步的方法和过程的定义、发展和概述各种可能的行动来满足一个国家或特定疆界共享相似的文化背景、风俗和语言的大多数人现有或未来的需求、目标和目的。

Code:  5489
English Term: national reserve
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 国家储备
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5479
English Term: nationalisation
Definition: The transfer of ownership of a private business or other private property to a national government, either through uncompensated seizure (expropriation) or through forced sale at a government-determined price.(Source: DUC)
Chinese Term: 国有化
Translation:  私人业务或其他私有财产的所有权转让给一个国家的政府，或者通过无偿扣押（没收）或通过按政府确定的价格被迫出售。

Code:  5494
English Term: natural area
Definition: An area in which natural processes predominate, fluctuations in numbers of organisms are allowed free play and human intervention is minimal. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 自然区
Translation: 自然进程成为主流的地区，生物的数量波动可以自由运转且人类干预是最小的。

Code:  10032
English Term: natural areas protection
Definition: Active management of nature areas in order to ensure that wildlife is protected and the quality of its environment is maintained. (Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 自然区保护
Translation: 积极管理自然地区以确保野生动植物被保护及保持其优质环境质量。

Code:  5496
English Term: natural disaster
Definition: Violent, sudden and destructive change in the environment without cause from human activity, due to phenomena such as floods, earthquakes, fire and hurricanes. (Source: Unesco-Unep)
Chinese Term: 自然灾害
Translation: 非人类活动引起的极端地、突然地和破坏性地环境变化，如洪水、地震、火灾和飓风。

Code:  5497
English Term: natural drainage system
Definition:
Chinese Term: 自然排水系统
Translation:

Code:  5498
English Term: natural environment
Definition: The complex of atmospheric, geological and biological characteristics found in an area in the absence of artifacts or influences of a well developed technological, human culture. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 自然环境
Translation:  在没有人类产品和影响地区出现的大气、地质和生物特征的复合物。

Code:  5500
English Term: natural fertiliser
Definition: Organic material added to the soil to supply chemical elements needed for plant nutrition. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 天然肥料
Translation: 有机物质添加到土壤中以供应植物营养所需的化学元素。

Code:  5501
English Term: natural fibre
Definition: A textile fiber of mineral, plant or animal origin. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 天然纤维
Translation:  源自矿物、植物或动物的纤维。

Code:  5502
English Term: natural forest
Definition: A forest area that has developed free from the influence of humans and remains largely unaffected by their activities. The natural forest may include, but is not necessarily equivalent to, an old-growth forest. (Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 天然林
Translation: 摆脱人类影响的林地，其活动在很大程度上不会受到影响。天然林可能包括，但不一定等同老龄林。

Code:  5503
English Term: natural gas
Definition: A natural fuel containing methane and hydrocarbons that occurs in certain geologic formations. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 天然气
Translation: 含有甲烷和碳氢化合物的天然燃料，在特定的地质结构中产生。

Code:  5504
English Term: natural gas exploration
Definition: Underground prospection conducted with various methods to discover natural gas deposits which are usually found in the immediate vicinity of crude petroleum. (Source: ZINZAN /  PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 天然气勘查
Translation: 地下勘探与多种方法进行发现的天然气储量，通常在原油附近发现。

Code:  5505
English Term: natural gas extraction
Definition: The tapping of natural gas from wells located under the sea and in general from underground sources often in association with petroleum deposits; it is used as a fuel, having largely replaced coal-gas for this purpose, and as a source of intermediates for organic synthesis. (Source: GRAHAWa /  UVAROVa /  GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 天然气开采
Translation: 海下气井和地下天然气的开采一般都与石油矿床有关，它作为燃料被使用，为此在很大程度上取代煤气，以及作为有机合成中间体源。

Code:  5506
English Term: natural hazard
Definition: The probability of occurrence, within a specific period of time in a given area of a potentially damaging phenomenon of nature. (Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term: 自然灾害
Translation: 在一个具体的时期内一个给定地区的可能破坏的自然现象的发生概率。

Code:  5507
English Term: natural heritage
Definition: Generally, the world's natural resources as handed down to the present generation, and specifically, the earth's outstanding physical, biological and geological formations, and habitats of threatened species of animals and plants and areas with scientific, conservation or aesthetic value. (Source: WHC /  OED)
Chinese Term: 自然遗产
Translation: 一般来说，指传给现在这代人的世界上的自然资源。特别地，指地球上杰出的物理、生物和地质构造物，以及受到威胁的动植物物种的栖息地和有科学、保护或者审美价值的地区。

Code:  11061
English Term: natural heritage assessment
Definition: Evaluation of the natural structures, resources and landscapes to ensure their careful management and preservation. (Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 自然遗产评估
Translation: 对自然结构、资源和风景的评估，以保证对它们的精心管理和保存。

Code:  14966
English Term: natural independence law
Definition: The inviolable, moral claim of non-human organisms and their habitats to exist unharmed or unchanged by human activity as postulated by certain environmental ethicists. (Source: HRE)
Chinese Term: 自然独立性
Translation:  如同某些环境伦理学家要求的，对非人类生物体和其栖息地的存在不受人类活动伤害和改变的不可侵犯的、道德的主张。

Code:  5510
English Term: natural material
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 天然材料
Translation: 无需定义。

Code:  5511
English Term: natural monument
Definition: A natural/cultural feature which is of outstanding or unique value because of its inherent rarity, representative of aesthetic qualities or cultural significance. Guidance for selection of a natural monument is: a) The area should contain one or more features of outstanding significance (appropriate natural features include spectacular waterfalls, caves, craters, fossil beds, sand dunes and marine features, along with unique or representative fauna and flora; associated cultural features might include cave dwellings, cliff-top forts, archaeological sites, or natural sites which have heritage significance to indigenous peoples).; b) The area should be large enough to protect the integrity of the feature and its immediately related surroundings. (Source: AERG)
Chinese Term: 天然纪念物
Translation: 因为它内在的稀有性、审美质量或者文化意义上的代表性而具有杰出或者独特价值的一个自然/文化特征。 对一座天然纪念物选择的指导是： a)此地区应该包含一个或更多杰出意义的特点(合适的自然特征包括壮观的瀑布、山洞，火山口、化石层、沙丘和海，伴随独特或者有代表性的动植物群；相关的文化特征可以包括对当地人有遗产意义的窑洞、悬崖堡垒、考古遗址或者自然场所); b)地区应该大得足以保护其特征和紧密相关的环境的完整性。

Code:  5513
English Term: natural park
Definition: A designation of project lands which preserves natural resources for their scientific, scenic, cultural and/or educational value by limiting development and management practices. Land managed to protect rare and endangered species of flora and fauna will be designed as natural areas. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 天然公园
Translation: 通过限制发展的和经营活动，为其科学、风景、文化和/或教育价值保护自然资源而指定的项目土地。保护动植物群的稀有和濒危物种的土地将被设计为自然风景区。

Code:  5518
English Term: natural radioactivity
Definition: Radiation stemming mainly from uranium, present in small amounts in many rocks, soils, building material, etc. (Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 天然放射性
Translation: 辐射主要归因于铀，其少量出现在一些岩石、土壤，建筑材料等里面。

Code:  10707
English Term: natural regeneration
Definition: The replacement by an organism of tissues or organs which have been lost or severely injured. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 自然更新
Translation: 生物体已经丧失或者严重损害的组织或器官的替换。

Code:  5521
English Term: natural resource
Definition: A feature or component of the natural environment that is of value in serving human needs, e.g. soil, water, plantlife, wildlife, etc. Some natural resources have an economic value (e.g. timber) while others have a "noneconomic" value (e.g. scenic beauty).(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 自然资源
Translation: 服务于人类需要中有价值的自然环境的特性或者组成部分，例如土壤、水、植物、野生动物等等。一些自然资源有经济价值(例如木材)，而其它有"非经济"价值（如风景名胜）。

Code:  5520
English Term: natural resource conservation
Definition: The management of living and non-living resources in such a way as to sustain the maximum benefit for present and future generations. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 自然资源保护
Translation: 有生命和无生命资源的管理，用这样的一种方式为当代与后代维持最大的利益。

Code:  10102
English Term: natural risk
Definition: Probability of harm to human health, property or the environment posed by any aspect of the physical world other than human activity. (Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 自然风险
Translation: 通过自然世界而非人类活动造成的对人类健康、财产或者环境危害的可能性。

Code:  10103
English Term: natural risk analysis
Definition: Analysis of the probability of occurrence, within a specific period of time in a given area, of a potentially damaging phenomenon of nature. (Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term: 自然风险分析
Translation: 可能破坏的自然现象在一个具体的时期内，对一个的给定地区发生的可能性的分析。

Code:  10034
English Term: natural risks prevention
Definition: Precautionary measures, actions or installations implemented to avert the probability of harm to humans, property or natural resources posed by conditions or events in the environment neither initiated nor formed by human activity. (Source: HMD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 自然风险预防
Translation:  谨慎的措施、行动或者运行装置以避免产生危害人类、财产或者自然资源的条件或事件的可能性，这些条件或事件既不是人类活动引起的也不是人类活动形成的。


Code:  5523
English Term: natural scenery
Definition: An area where human effects, if present, are not significant to the landscape as a whole. (Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 自然景观
Translation:  整体上，人类活动（如果存在）对景观影响不重要的地区。

Code:  5524
English Term: natural science
Definition: The branches of science dealing with objectively measurable phenomena pertaining to the transformation and relationships of energy and matter; includes biology, physics, and chemistry. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 自然科学
Translation: 科学的分支，处理关于能量和物质的转化和相互关系的客观地可测量的现象；包括生物学、物理学和化学。

Code:  5529
English Term: natural stone
Definition: A gemstone that occurs in nature, as distinguished from a man-made substitute. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 天然石
Translation:  自然出现的宝石，区别于人造替代物。

Code:  5530
English Term: natural value
Definition:
Chinese Term: 自然价值
Translation:

Code:  5537
English Term: nature conservation
Definition: Active management of the earth's natural resources and environment to ensure their quality is maintained and that they are wisely used. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 自然保护
Translation: 地球的自然资源和环境的积极管理以保证他们的质量被维持与被明智使用。

Code:  5538
English Term: nature conservation legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to protect, preserve or renew an area's natural habitats or ecosystem. (Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 自然保护法
Translation:  政府规定的规章约束或者法律法规以保护、维护或者恢复一个地区的自然栖息地或者生态系统。

Code:  5536
English Term: nature conservation organisation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 自然保护组织
Translation:

Code:  14671
English Term: nature conservation policy
Definition:
Chinese Term: 自然保护政策
Translation:

Code:  5539
English Term: nature conservation programme
Definition: An organized group of activities and procedures, often run by a government agency or a nonprofit organization, to preserve and protect elements of the natural world such as mountains, trees, animals or rivers. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 自然保护规划
Translation: 活动和程序的组织团体，经常由政府机构或者一个非赢利的组织运作，以维护并且保护自然界的要素(例如山、树木、动物或者河流)。

Code:  5544
English Term: nature protection
Definition: Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken to prevent or reduce harm to the elements of the material world that exist independently of human activity. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 自然预防
Translation: 担负防止或者降低危害独立于人类活动而存在的物质世界元素的谨慎行动、程序或者装置。

Code:  5545
English Term: nature reserve
Definition: Areas allocated to preserve and protect certain animals and plants, or both. They differ from national park, which are largely a place for public recreation, because they are provided exclusively to protect species for their own sake. Endangered species are increasingly being kept in nature reserves to prevent them from extinction, particularly in India, Indonesia and some African countries. Natural reserves were used once to preserve the animals that landowners hunted, but, in the 19th century, they became places where animals were kept to prevent them from dying out. Special refuges and sanctuaries are also often designated to protect certain species or groups of wild animals or plants, especially if their numbers and distribution have been significantly reduced. They also serve as a place for more plentiful species to rest, breed or winter. Many parts of the world also have marine and aquatic reserves to protect different species of sea or freshwater plant and animal life. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 自然保护区
Translation: 被分配的用于维护并且保护某种动植物的地区。它们不同于国家公园，国家公园基本上是公共娱乐的一个地方，而自然保护区是专门提供的物种保护地。濒危物种正越来越被放在自然保护区以防止其灭绝，特别是在印度、印度尼西亚和一些非洲国家。自然保护区曾经被用来防止土地所有人狩猎，但是，在19世纪，变成防止动物消失的地方。特别避难处和庇护所也经常被指定来保护某些物种或者野生动植物群，特别是如果它们的数量和分布已经明显减少时。它们也成为更多的物种休养、繁殖或过冬场所。世界上许多地方也有海洋和水生物保护区来保护不同的海洋或淡水动植物物种。


Code:  5547
English Term: nausea
Definition:
Chinese Term: 恶心
Translation:

Code:  11289
English Term: navigation
Definition: The science or art of conducting ships or aircraft from one place to another, esp. the method of determining position, course, and distance travelled over the surface of the earth by the principles of geometry and astronomy and by reference to devices (as radar beacons or instruments) designed as aids. (Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 导航
Translation: 引导船只或飞机从一个地方到另一地方的科学或技术，尤其指依靠几何、天文原理和辅助设计的设备（如雷达信标或仪器）进行的地球表面的定位、线路和长途旅行方法。

Code:  5550
English Term: navigational hazard
Definition: Any obstacle encountered by a vessel in route posing risk or danger to the vessel, its contents or the environment. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 航行障碍物
Translation: 船舶航行中遇到的可造成危险或者危害的任何障碍物，包括其容纳的东西或者环境。

Code:  5554
English Term: necrosis
Definition: The pathologic death of living tissue in a plant or animal.
Chinese Term: 坏疽
Translation:  动植物生命组织的病理死亡。

Code:  5555
English Term: need
Definition: The fact or an instance of feeling the lack of something. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 需要
Translation: 缺乏某些事物的事实或者感觉。

Code:  1291
English Term: negotiable charge
Definition:
Chinese Term: 流通税
Translation:

Code:  5559
English Term: neighbourhood improvement scheme
Definition:
Chinese Term: 社区改善计划
Translation:

Code:  4715
English Term: neighbourhood law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to protect human health and the environment, manage growth and development or enhance the quality of life in small geographical and social areas within cities where residents share values and concerns and interact with one another on a daily basis. (Source: HUM)
Chinese Term: 社区法
Translation: 在城市内的小区域和社区，政府规定的保护人类健康和环境、管理人口增长和发展或者提高生活质量的约束规章或者法律法规。社区居民共享价值取向、利益关注，在日常生活中相互配合。

Code:  11923
English Term: neighbourhood noise
Definition: General noise from a local source (such as the noise of a factory) which is disturbing to people living in the area. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 环境噪声
Translation: 来自本地的噪音(例如工厂的噪音)给生活在本地区的人们带来干扰。

Code:  5565
English Term: nematode
Definition: A group of unsegmented worms which have been variously recognized as an order, class, and phylum. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 线虫类
Translation: 一组未分段的蠕虫，已经以不同的名称作为一种目、类和门。

Code:  5569
English Term: nervous system
Definition: A coordinating and integrating system which functions in the adaptation of an organism to its environment; in vertebrates, the system consists of the brain, brainstem, spinal cord, cranial and peripheral nerves, and ganglia. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 神经系统
Translation: 生物体的协调和集成系统，其功能在于对环境的适应性；在脊椎动物里，该系统由大脑、脑干、脊髓、头颅、外周神经和神经中枢组成。

Code:  10535
English Term: nesting
Definition: The building of nests for egg laying and rearing of offspring. (Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 筑巢
Translation:  用于孵蛋和子女抚养的巢穴建设。

Code:  10496
English Term: nesting area
Definition: A place where birds gather to lay eggs. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 巢区
Translation:  鸟类聚集产卵的地方。

Code:  5571
English Term: net resource depletion
Definition: The total decrease in the amount of natural materials available for use by humans and other living beings. (Source: RHW / APD)
Chinese Term: 资源净损耗
Translation:  人类和其他生物可使用天然原料的减少量。

Code:  5572
English Term: netting policy (emissions trading)
Definition: All emission sources in the same area that are owned or controlled by a single company are treated as one large source, thereby allowing flexibility in controlling individual sources in order to meet a single emissions standard. (Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 扣抵政策（排放贸易）
Translation:  同一地区由一家公司所拥有或控制的所有排放源被视为一个大排放源，从而允许灵活地控制个体的来源，以满足单一的排放标准。

Code:  5575
English Term: neurotoxicity
Definition: The occurrence of adverse effects on a nervous system following exposure to a chemical. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 神经中毒性
Translation:  发生在神经系统的不利影响导致生成化学物。

Code:  5577
English Term: neutralisation
Definition: To make a solution neutral by adding a base to an acidic solution, or an acid to a basic solution. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 中和作用
Translation:  为了得到中性溶液，则加碱到酸性溶液中或加酸到碱性溶液中。

Code:  5580
English Term: new community
Definition: A sociopolitical, religious, occupational or other group of common characteristics and interests formed as an alternative to social, and often residential, options currently available. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 新社区
Translation:  具有共同特征和利益的社会政治的、宗教的、职业的或其他方面的团体结构，可作为当前居住社会的有效的替代选项。

Code:  5581
English Term: new installation
Definition: A device, system, or piece of equipment that has been recently installed. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 新设备
Translation: 最近已安装的设备、系统或装置。

Code:  5583
English Term: new material
Definition: Novel high-performance materials obtained through the interdisciplinary research of chemistry, applied chemistry, chemical engineering, and mechanical engineering. (Source: CMKYUa)
Chinese Term: 新材料
Translation: 通过化学、应用化学、化学工程、机械工程的跨学科研究获得的新型高性能材料。

Code:  5585
English Term: new technology
Definition: Electronic instruments and devices which have recently been developed and are been introduced into industry. New technologies have been introduced often in almost total ignorance or disregard of the biological and ecological systems that they subsequently disturb, and of the dynamic and evolving nature of living systems. (Source: PHC /  WPR)
Chinese Term: 新技术
Translation: 最近开发且被产业化的电子仪器和设备。新技术已被引入常常未知或忽视的生物与生态系统、随后它们干扰，自然生命系统的动态和演化特性。

Code:  11332
English Term: new town
Definition: Any of several recent urban developments that constitute small and essentially self-sufficient cities with a planned ordering of residential, industrial, and commercial development. (Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 新城镇
Translation:  任何一些新发展的城镇，由小型的且带有住宅、工业和商业发展计划的本质上自足的城市所组成。

Code:  14867
English Term: newsgroup
Definition: A discussion group on a specific topic maintained on a computer network, frequently on the Internet. (Source: ISEP /  WIC)
Chinese Term: 新闻组
Translation: 一个维护在计算机网络上具有特定主题的讨论组，经常出现在互联网上。

Code:  14873
English Term: newsletter
Definition: A printed periodical bulletin circulated to members of a group.  (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 时事通讯
Translation: 分发给一组成员的定期印制的新闻简报。


Code:  5589
English Term: nickel
Definition: A malleable ductile silvery-white metallic element that is strong and corrosion-resistant, occurring principally in pentlandite and niccolite: used in alloys, especially in toughening steel, in electroplating, and as a catalyst in organic synthesis. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 镍
Translation: 坚硬和抗腐蚀的一种有韧性的银色光泽白色的金属成分，主要出现在镍黄铁矿和红砷镍矿里：在合金里使用，特别在电镀过程中韧化钢材及作为在有机合成过程中的一种催化剂。

Code:  10968
English Term: NIMBY aptitude
Definition: Not In My BackYard: phrase used to describe people who encourage the development of agriculture land for building houses or factories, provided it is not near where they themselves are living. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 地区性自我保护主义
Translation: 不要在我的后院里：短语用来描述鼓励为农业土地的发展而建造房子或者工厂的人们，只要建造的房子或者工厂不靠近他们自己正居住的地方。


Code:  5593
English Term: nitrate
Definition: Any salt or ester of nitric acid, such as sodium nitrate. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 硝酸盐
Translation: 硝酸的任何盐或者酯，例如钠硝酸盐。

Code:  5598
English Term: nitrification
Definition: The process by which ammonia compounds, including man-made fertilizer and the humus provided by organic matter or plant and animal origin, are converted into nitrites and then nitrates, which are then absorbed as a nutrient by crops. Excess nitrate can be leached into surface waters and groundwaters, causing pollution. Excess nitrate may also be converted by microbes back into gaseous nitrogen, which is an important greenhouse gas, and released back into the atmosphere. The ultimate source of nitrogen in the ecosystem is the molecular nitrogen in the atmosphere. To a very limited extent, some dissolves in water. However, none is found in rock. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 硝化作用
Translation: 氨水混合物，包括人造肥料、由有机物或者动植物源提供的腐殖质，被转换为亚硝酸盐而后是硝酸盐，其被吸收作为庄稼营养物的过程。过量硝酸盐可浸入地表水和地下水而引起污染。过量硝酸盐可能通过微生物转变为氮气，它是一种重要的温室气体，并且释放进入大气。生态系统中的氮的重要来源是空气中的分子氮。在有限的程度之上，一些溶解在水里。不过，没有在岩石里发现氮。

Code:  5601
English Term: nitrite
Definition: A salt or ester of nitric acid, included in compounds such as potassium nitrite, sodium nitrite and butyl nitrite. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 亚硝酸盐
Translation: 硝酸的盐或者酯，包含在化合物(例如钾亚硝酸盐、钠亚硝酸盐和亚硝酸丁酯)里。

Code:  5604
English Term: nitro compound
Definition: Any one of a class of usually organic compounds that contain the monovalent group, -NO2 (nitro group or radical) linked to a carbon atom. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 硝基化合物
Translation: 任何一个通常包含单价基、与一个碳原子相连的二氧化氮（硝基）的有机化合物类。

Code:  5605
English Term: nitrogen
Definition: An essential nutrient in the food supply of plants and the diets of animals. Animals obtain it in nitrogen-containing compounds, particularly amino acids. Although the atmosphere is nearly 80% gaseous nitrogen, very few organisms have the ability to use it in this form. The higher plants normally obtain it from the soil after micro-organisms have converted the nitrogen into ammonia or nitrates, which they can then absorb. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 氮
Translation: 一种在食品供应的植物和动物饮食中必要的营养物质。动物从含氮的化合物中获得的，特别是氨基酸。虽然空气中差不多80%的是气态氮，但非常少的生物体有能力以这种形式使用它。在微生物体已经把氮转变成之后能被吸收的氨或者硝酸盐后，更高等的植物通常能从土壤中获得它。

Code:  5607
English Term: nitrogen cycle
Definition: The complex set of processes by which crops acquire the large amount of nitrogen they need to make proteins, nucleic acids and other biochemicals of which they are composed, and how the nitrogen returns to the atmosphere. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 氮循环
Translation: 庄稼获得大量的它们需要合成蛋白质、核酸和其它生化物质的氮，及氮如何回到空气的这套复杂的过程。

Code:  5608
English Term: nitrogen dioxide
Definition: A reddish-brown gas; it exists in varying degrees of concentration in equilibrium with other nitrogen oxides; used to produce nitric acid. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 二氧化氮
Translation: 一种红棕色的气体；它存在不同的浓度以平衡其他氮氧化物；过去常常用来生产硝酸。

Code:  5611
English Term: nitrogen fixation
Definition: Assimilation of atmospheric nitrogen by a variety of microorganisms which live freely in soil. Once the nitrogen has been captured by one of the microorganisms, there are many different routes by which it is handled. Some is retained in the soil as decomposing plant matter, waiting to be released and taken up by new crops as a nitrate. That nitrate is produced by nitrifying bacteria living in the soil that thrive on ammonia, which is produced by decaying plant and animal material. In processing nitrogen the nitrifying bacteria produce nitrate that can be absorbed by the roots of plants. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 固氮作用
Translation: 土壤里自由存在的多种微生物对大气中氮的吸收。一旦微生物已经捕获到氮，有很多不同的路线来处理。一些像分解的植物那样被保留在土壤里，等待作为硝酸盐被新的庄稼吸收。 硝酸盐是通过生活在土壤中的细菌硝化而产生的，靠氨旺盛生长，这些氨是由腐烂的植物和动物材料而产生的。

Code:  5612
English Term: nitrogen monoxide
Definition: A colourless gas, soluble in water, ethanol and ether. It is formed in many reactions involving the reduction of nitric acid, but more convenient reactions for the preparation of reasonably pure NO are reactions of sodium nitrite, sulphuric acid, etc. (Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 一氧化二氮
Translation: 一种无色气体，易溶于水、乙醇和乙醚。它形成于一些硝酸还原反应中，但更方便的制备纯氧化氮反应的是亚硝酸钠、硫酸等反应。

Code:  13577
English Term: nitrogen oxide
Definition: A colorless gas that, at room temperature, reacts with oxygen to form nitrogen dioxide; may be used to form other compounds. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 一氧化氮
Translation: 一种无色气体，在室温条件下，与氧气反应生成二氧化氮，可被用来形成其它化合物。

Code:  5613
English Term: nitrogen oxides
Definition: Oxides formed and released in all common types of combustion; they are formed by the oxidation of atmospheric nitrogen at high temperatures. Introduced into the atmosphere from car exhausts, furnace stacks, incinerators, power stations and similar sources, the oxides include nitrous oxide, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, nitrogen pentoxide and nitric acid. The oxides of nitrogen undergo many reactions in the atmosphere to form photochemical smog. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 氮氧化物
Translation: 在所有常见类型的燃烧中形成和释放的氧化物，它们是由大气中的氮在高温氧化中形成的。将来自汽车废气、火炉、焚化炉、发电厂及类似来源的排放物引入大气，包括一氧化二氮、一氧化氮、二氧化氮、五氧化二氮和硝酸的氧化物。氮的氧化物经过大气中的许多反应，形成光化学烟雾。

Code:  11209
English Term: nitrogenous fertiliser
Definition: Fertilizer materials, natural or synthesized, containing nitrogen available for fixation by vegetation, such as potassium nitrate or ammonium nitrate. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 氮肥
Translation: 天然或合成的化肥原料，含有固定植被的可用氮，如硝酸钾或硝酸铵。

Code:  5618
English Term: nitrosamine
Definition: Any one of a class of neutral, usually yellow oily compounds containing the divalent group = NNO. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 亚硝胺
Translation: 任何中性的、通常含有二价基=NNO的黄色油性化合物。

Code:  5623
English Term: NOEL
Definition: Acronym for No Observed Effects Level. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: NOEL
Translation: 无观察效果等级的缩写。

Code:  5624
English Term: noise
Definition: Sound which is unwanted, either because of its effects on humans, its effect on fatigue or malfunction of physical equipment, or its interference with the perception or detection of other sounds. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 噪声
Translation: 有害的声音，要么是因为对人类的影响，造成身体疲劳或设备故障，要么干扰知觉或对其它声音的探测。

Code:  5626
English Term: noise abatement
Definition: Measures to reduce noise at the source, to encourage quieter technologies or equipment or to prevent or reduce the propagation of sound. Measures may include the isolation and damping of vibration sources; the replacement of components with quieter parts and material; the enclosure of particularly noisy components; the provision of noise barriers, etc. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 噪声控制
Translation: 为了支持消音技术、设备或防止、减少声音的传播，从源头上减少噪声的措施。措施可包括隔离和减幅振动源；使用消音部件和材料更换组件；围住特定的噪音部分；提供隔音屏障等。

Code:  5629
English Term: noise analysis
Definition: Determination of the frequency components that make up a particular noise being studied. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 噪声分析
Translation:  研究组成特定噪音的频率成分的测定。

Code:  5630
English Term: noise barrier
Definition: Barriers for reducing the propagation of sound: they are widely used in industry and alongside roads and railways to shield receivers from noise sources. Barriers will not reduce the noise on the receivers side, but will increase it, unless the barrier is also covered in absorbing material. (Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 隔音屏障
Translation: 为减少声音传播的屏障：它们是广泛应用于工业和公路、铁路来屏蔽噪声源的接收器。屏障将不会减少接收端的噪声，但会增加，除非屏障也覆盖了吸波材料。

Code:  5631
English Term: noise control
Definition: The process to control the audible sound to an acceptable level. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 噪音控制
Translation:  控制发声声音到可接受水平的过程。

Code:  5633
English Term: noise disturbance
Definition: Noise interferes with communication and interferes with thought processes. Noise interferes with sleep, it causes anger and frustration, and has been implicated as a contributor to various psychological and physiological problems. Noise detracts from the quality of life and the environment. (Source: PZ)
Chinese Term: 噪音干扰
Translation: 噪声影响沟通和思维过程。噪声妨碍睡眠，它会导致愤怒和失望，并已牵涉作为各种心理和生理问题的促成因素。噪音有损于生活和环境质量。

Code:  13839
English Term: noise effect
Definition:
Chinese Term: 噪声效应
Translation:

Code:  5635
English Term: noise emission
Definition: The release of noise into the environment from various sources that can be grouped in: transportation activities, industrial activities and daily normal activities. (Source: DIFID)
Chinese Term: 噪声排放
Translation: 从不同来源释放到环境中的噪音，这些来源可分为：交通运输活动、工业活动和日常的正常活动。

Code:  5637
English Term: noise emission levy
Definition: A mandatory sum of money levied by government upon producers of disturbing, harmful or unwanted sounds, frequently in the transportation or construction industries, to encourage reduction of sound levels. (Source: Landy)
Chinese Term: 噪声排放税
Translation: 政府对产生令人不安的、有害的或不需要的声音的生产者强制征收的款项，常发生在运输或建造业，以鼓励声音水平下降。

Code:  11930
English Term: noise exposure plan
Definition: A formulated or systematic method to prevent the effects of being subjected to loud or harsh sounds. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 噪声暴露计划
Translation: 一个明确的、系统性的方法来防止受到大声或刺耳声音的影响。

Code:  5640
English Term: noise immission
Definition: Immission in the environment of acoustic vibrations that negatively affect human beings, animals, plants or other objects. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 噪声照射
Translation: 声音震动排入环境，对人类、动物、植物或其他物体造成负面影响。

Code:  5643
English Term: noise legislation
Definition: Legislation introduced by many governments to prevent or restrict the emission of noise from industrial, commercial and domestic premises; from motor vehicles and aircraft; and from consumer appliances and equipment. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 噪声法规
Translation: 许多国家的政府采用的立法，以防止或限制来自工业、商业、住宅楼宇和汽车、飞机及消费电器、设备的噪音排放。

Code:  5644
English Term: noise level
Definition: Physical quantity of unwanted sound measured, usually expressed in decibels. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 噪声级
Translation: 有害声音物理量的测量，通常以分贝表示。

Code:  5646
English Term: noise measurement
Definition: The process of quantitatively determining one or more properties of acoustic noise. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 噪声测量
Translation:  定量测定噪声的一个或多个属性的过程。

Code:  5648
English Term: noise monitoring
Definition: The systematic deployment of monitoring equipment for the purpose of detecting or measuring quantitatively or qualitatively the presence, effect, or level of noise. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 噪声监测
Translation:  为了定性定量检测和测量噪音的存在、影响或水平而系统部署的监测设备。

Code:  5650
English Term: noise pollutant
Definition: Noise in the environment which can be harmful to human beings, animals and plants. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 噪声污染物
Translation:在环境中可对人体、动物和植物造成伤害的噪声。

Code:  5651
English Term: noise pollution
Definition: Harmful or unwanted sounds in the environment, which in specific locals, can be measured and averaged over a period of time. (Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 噪声污染
Translation:  局部环境中可以测量和平均存在一段时间的有害或不需要的声音。

Code:  5653
English Term: noise protection
Definition: Adoption of measures for controlling noise pollution, such as restriction of the emission of noise from industrial, commercial and domestic premises, from motor vehicles and aircrafts, the provision of noise barriers and buffer zones, the fitting of sound attenuation equipment, etc. (Source: CONFERa /  GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 噪声防护
Translation:  采用控制噪声污染的措施，如限制来自工业、商业、住宅楼宇和汽车、飞机排放的噪声，提供隔音屏障及缓冲区，采用适当的消声装置等。

Code:  5654
English Term: noise reduction
Definition: The reduction in the sound pressure level of a noise, or the attenuation of unwanted sound by any means. (Source: CONFER)
Chinese Term: 降噪
Translation: 以任何方式降低噪音的声压水平或者衰减有害的声音。

Code: 11909
English Term: noise spectrum
Definition: The range of frequencies occurring in the noise emitted by a source. (Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 噪声频谱
Translation:  出现在同一来源发出的噪声的频率范围。

Code:  5658
English Term: noise type
Definition:
Chinese Term: 噪声类型
Translation:

Code:  5638
English Term: noise-free technology
Definition: Sound is radiated both as air-borne and as structure-borne; most sources produce both, thus various noise attenuation principles must be employed. Measures include: the replacement of components with quieter parts and material; the enclosure of particularly noisy components; the selection of quieter types of fan; the replacement of noisy compressed-air nozzles with quieter types; the choice of quieter transmission and cooling systems. (Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 无噪声技术
Translation: 声音可同时作为空气传播和结构传播；大部分的传播来源同时产生，因而不同的噪音衰减原则须得到使用。措施包括：用消音零件和材料更换部件；隔绝特定的噪声部件；选择消音风扇；用消音类型更换噪音压缩空气喷嘴；选择消音传输和散热系统。

Code:  5662
English Term: nomad
Definition: 1) A member of a people or tribe who move from place to place to find pasture and food. 2) Nomads include gypsies, desert tribes such as the Bedouin and the many primitive tribes in the Americas, Asia and Australia. Herding survives as a way of life around the Sahara, in the Middle East, in Asia as far east as western India, and in the Asian parts of the USSR. The end of pastoral nomadism would be regrettable not merely on account of the independence and distinctiveness of this way of life but because this type of economy may be a more rational means of raising large numbers of animals under arid conditions than is capital-intensive ranching. (Source: CED /  WPR)
Chinese Term: 游牧民族
Translation: 1）一个民族或部族的成员为寻找牧场和食品从一个地方移动到另一个地方。2）游牧民族，包括吉普赛人、沙漠部落如贝都因人和美洲、亚洲和澳洲的许多原始的部落。在中东的撒哈拉、亚洲东至印度西部、苏联的亚洲部分，放牧作为一种生活方式继续存在。牧民游牧的结束将是令人遗憾的，不仅要考虑这种生活方式的独立性和独特性，而是因为这种经济形式可能是一种在干旱条件下相对资本密集的大牧场来说喂养大量动物更合理的方法。

Code:  5664
English Term: nomenclature
Definition: A system of names or terms, particularly those related to a specific area of science or art, or the assignment of names to things. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 专门语
Translation: 名字或术语系统，尤其是关于科学技术或事物的特定领域的名称。

Code:  5666
English Term: non-biodegradable pollutant
Definition: An organic compound, usually synthetic, that is not decomposed or mineralized by microorganisms or other biological processes. (Source: FFD)
Chinese Term: 非生物降解的污染物
Translation: 一种有机化合物，通常是合成的，即不分解或由微生物或其它生物过程矿化。

Code:  5667
English Term: non-built-up area
Definition: Areas which are not intensely developed for housing, commerce, industry, etc. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 非建成区
Translation: 住宅、商业、工业等没有充分发展的区域。

Code:  5668
English Term: non-conventional energy
Definition: Energy that is renewable and ecologically safe, such as tidal power, wind power, etc. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 非传统能源
Translation: 能源是可再生的和生态安全的，如潮汐发电、风力发电等。

Code:  12153
English Term: non-demesnial water
Definition: A body of water that is owned and maintained by an individual or entity other than the national government. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 非领地水
Translation: 个人或实体而非国家政府拥有并维护的水体。

Code:  10929
English Term: non-durable goods
Definition: A good bought by consumers that tends to last for less than a year. Common examples are food and clothing. The notable thing about nondurable goods is that consumers tend to continue buying them regardless of the ups and downs of the business cycle. (Source: AMOS2)
Chinese Term: 非耐用商品
Translation: 消费者购买的往往使用不到一年的商品。常见的例子是食品和衣服。对于非耐用商品值得注意的是，消费者往往不顾商业周期的起伏而不断购买它们。

Code:  5670
English Term: non-ferrous metal
Definition: Any metal other than iron and its alloys. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 非铁金属
Translation: 任何不是铁及铁合金的金属。

Code:  5669
English Term: non-ferrous metal industry
Definition: Industry that deals with the processing of metals other than iron and iron-base alloys. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 非铁金属业
Translation:  涉及不非铁和铁基合金等金属加工的产业。

Code:  5671
English Term: non-governmental organisation
Definition: Private, voluntary, non-profit organisations, acting as pressure groups. Throughout the world there are more than 5.000 international NGOs which are concerned with the environment and development, with millions of supporters.(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 非政府组织
Translation: 私下的、自愿的、非营利的组织，充当压力集团的角色。在世界各地有超过5.000个国际非政府组织是与环境和发展有关的，其拥有数百万的支持者。

Code:  5674
English Term: non-ionising radiation
Definition: Radiation that does not change the structure of atoms but does heat tissue and may cause harmful biological effects.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 非电离性辐射
Translation:   不改变原子结构但使组织变热并可能导致有害的生物效应的辐射。

Code:  5676
English Term: non-metal
Definition: A nonmetallic element, such as arsenic or silicon, that has some of the properties of a metal.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 非金属
Translation: 非金属元素，如砷或硅，即具有某金属的一些性质。

Code:  5675
English Term: non-metallic mineral
Definition: Minerals containing non-metals, such as quartz, garnet, etc.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 非金属矿
Translation: 含有非金属的矿物，如石英、石榴石等

Code:  5677
English Term: non-polluting energy source
Definition: Energy that is ecologically safe and renewable. The most widely used source is hydroelectric power, which currently supplies some 6.6% of the world's energy needs. Other non-polluting sources are solar energy, tidal energy, wave energy and wind energy. Most non-polluting energy sources require a high capital investment but have low running costs.(Source: GILP96 /  UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 无污染性能源、清洁能源
Translation: 可再生和生态安全的能源。使用最广泛的是水力发电，目前提供世界能源需求的6.6％。其他非污染来源是太阳能、潮汐能、波浪能和风能。大多数非污染性能源，需要高资本投资，但运营成本低。

Code:  5679
English Term: non-polluting fuel
Definition: Clean fuel that does not release polluting emissions in the environment, such as methane.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 无污染性燃料
Translation: 清洁燃料，不会在环境中排放污染物，如甲烷。

Code:  5684
English Term: non-renewable energy resource
Definition: Non-renewable resources have been built up or evolved over a geological time-span and cannot be used without depleting the stock and raising questions of ultimate exhaustibility, since their rate of formation is so slow as to be meaningless in terms of the human life-span.(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 不可再生能源
Translation: 非再生能源是在地质时间跨度上已建成或进化而成的，如果没有消耗储备将不能使用，同时提出了最终耗竭问题，因为它们的形成速度如此缓慢以致于对于人类生活跨度而言毫无意义。

Code:  5685
English Term: non-renewable resource
Definition: A natural resource which, in terms of human time scales, is contained within the Earth in a fixed quantity and therefore can be used once only in the foreseeable future (although it may be recycled after its first use). This includes the fossil fuels and is extended to include mineral resources and sometimes ground water, although water and many minerals are renewed eventually.  (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 不可再生资源
Translation:  就人类历史时间尺度而言，地球中含有固定数量的自然资源，因此在可以预见的将来仅能被使用一次（尽管它可能在第一次使用后被再利用）。这包括化石燃料和扩展到包括矿产资源、有时也包括地下水，虽然水和一些矿物质最后将被更新。

Code:  5686
English Term: non-residential building
Definition: Area which provides commercial, industrial, and public facilities.(Source: HARRISa)
Chinese Term: 非住宅建筑物
Translation: 提供商业、工业和公共设施的区域。

Code:  5687
English Term: non-returnable container
Definition: Any container for which no specific provisions for its return from the consumer or final use has been established.(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 一次性包装
Translation:  无特别要求消费者归还或已消耗完成的包装。

Code:  5689
English Term: non-target organism
Definition: A plant or animal other than the one against which the pesticide is applied.(Source: JJK)
Chinese Term: 非目标生物
Translation: 不在农药作用范围内的植物或动物。

Code:  11792
English Term: non-volatile substance
Definition: Substance that is not capable of changing from a solid or liquid form to a vapour.(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 不易挥发物
Translation:  不能从固体或液体形式转变为气体的物质。

Code:  5690
English Term: norm
Definition: An established standard, guide, or regulation. A principle or regulation set up by authority, prescribing or directing action or forbearance; as the rules of a legislative body, of a company, court, public office, of the law, of ethics.(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 规范
Translation: 已制定的标准、指导或规定。官方建立的原则或规章，制定或指示的禁止行为；作为立法机构、公司、法院、公共机构、法律、道德的规章制度。

Code:  5691
English Term: normalisation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 标准化
Translation:

Code:  5692
English Term: North Africa
Definition: A geographic region of the African continent south of Europe and the Mediterranean Sea, and north of Africa's tropical rain forest, including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya and the Egyptian region west of the Suez Canal, and also the Sahara Desert and Atlas Mountains.(Source: RHW / INP)
Chinese Term: 北非
Translation:  非洲大陆、南部欧洲、地中海和非洲的北方热带雨林的一个地理区域，包括摩洛哥、阿尔及利亚、突尼西亚、利比亚、埃及苏伊士运河西部地区，还有撒哈拉沙漠和阿特拉斯山脉。

Code:  5693
English Term: North America
Definition: A continent in the northern half of the western hemisphere, bounded by the Arctic Ocean in the north, by the Pacific Ocean and the Bering Sea in the west, and by the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico in the east, connected to South America by the Isthmus of Panama, and including the United States, Canada, Mexico and several small island nations.(Source: INP)
Chinese Term: 北美洲
Translation: 西半球北半部的一个大陆，其范围北至北冰洋，西为太平洋和白令海，东至大西洋和墨西哥湾东部，南通过巴拿马地峡连接到南美洲，包括美国、加拿大、墨西哥和一些小岛国。

Code: 5694
English Term:  North Atlantic Ocean
Definition: The northern part of the Atlantic Ocean, extending northward from the equator to the Arctic Ocean.(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 北大西洋
Translation:  大西洋的北部，从赤道向北延伸至北冰洋。

Code:  5695
English Term: North Pacific Ocean
Definition: An ocean north of the equator between the eastern coast of Asia and the western coasts of the Americas, extending northward to the arctic region, with principal arms including the Gulf of Alaska, the Sea of Okhotsk, the Sea of Japan and the Bering, Yellow, East China, South China and Philippine seas, and islands including the Aleutian, Midway, Marshall and Hawaiian islands, the Japanese island arc and the Malay Archipelago.(Source: INP)
Chinese Term: 北太平洋
Translation: 亚洲东海岸和美洲西海岸之间的赤道以北的海洋，向北扩展到北极地区，其主要延伸部分包括阿拉斯加湾、鄂霍次克海、日本海、白令海、黄海、华东、华南、菲律宾海域及包括阿留申群岛、中途岛、马歇尔和夏威夷群岛、日本岛弧及马来群岛等岛屿。

Code:  11106
English Term: North-South relationship
Definition: The connections, associations or involvement of developed nations, found predominantly in the Northern Hemisphere, with developing nations, found predominantly in the Southern Hemisphere.(Source: UIA)
Chinese Term: 北南关系
Translation: 主要出现在北半球的发达国家与主要出现在南半球的发展中国家的联系、关系或交流。

Code:  11489
English Term: notice
Definition: Factual information, advice or a written warning communicated to a person by an authorized source, often conveyed because of a legal or administrative rule requiring transmission of such information to all concerned parties.(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 通告
Translation: 经授权来源的事实资料、意见或书面警告通报到人，往往是法律或行政规定等传输信息转达到所有的有关各方。

Code:  11621
English Term: notification
Definition: Information concerning a fact, actually communicated to a person by an authorized person.(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 通知
Translation: 关于事实的信息，实际上由授权人传达到人。

Code:  5701
English Term: novel food
Definition: Genetically engineered foods. Novel foods, including those altered using biotechnology, should not differ 'significantly' from the foods they are to replace. Labels should not be misleading, but must make clear any differences between the novel food and its 'conventional' alternative, and must say how that difference was achieved. Foods containing a genetically modified living organism, such as a live yogurt made with an altered culture, would always be labelled. Any food whose modification might raise moral or health worries to consumers would also have to carry a label. This would include genes from an animal considered unclean by some religions, or from a plant that might cause allergic reactions. However, foods which, although made using novel methods, are identical to conventional foods, would not have to be labelled.(Source: MOND)
Chinese Term: 新型食品
Translation: 基因工程食品。新型食品，包括利用生物技术而改变的食品，将不会“明显地”区别于它们所代替的食品。标签不应该使人误解，但必须明确新型食品和“传统”选择之间的任何差别，必须指出这种差别是如何实现的。食品中含有转基因生物体，诸如具有改变培养方式而作出的酸奶，将总是被标记。任何食品其改变可能引起消费者以心理上或健康的忧虑，则必须携带一个标签。这将包括一些宗教认为的不洁净的动物基因，或可能会导致来自植物的基因过敏性反应。然而，尽管它采用了新方法，食品仍等同于传统食品，将不会被贴上标签。

Code:  5708
English Term: nuclear accident
Definition: An event occurring in a nuclear power plant or anywhere that radioactive materials are used, stored, or transported and involving the release of potentially dangerous levels of radioactive materials into the environment.  (Source: FEMAa)
Chinese Term: 核事故
Translation: 发生在核电厂或放射性物质使用、储存或运输的任何地方及涉及有潜在危险水平的放射性物质释放到环境中的事件。

Code:  5734
English Term: nuclear debate
Definition: The ongoing, public discussion and dispute over the uses of energy.(Source: ISEP /  MHD)
Chinese Term: 核辩论
Translation: 正在进行的，关于能源使用的公开讨论及争论。

Code:  5712
English Term: nuclear energy
Definition: Energy released by nuclear fission or nuclear fusion.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 原子能
Translation:  通过核裂变或核聚变释放能量。

Code:  5713
English Term: nuclear energy legislation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 核能立法
Translation:

Code:  5714
English Term: nuclear energy use
Definition: Nuclear energy is employed in the industrial sector, in the production of other energy types, in the medical and scientific research field, in transportation, in the production of nuclear weapons, etc.  (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 核能利用
Translation: 核能被使用在工业界、其他类型能源生产、医疗和科研领域、交通、核武器生产等。

Code:  5718
English Term: nuclear explosion (accident)
Definition: An unintentional release of energy from a rapid reaction of atomic nuclei yielding high temperatures and radiation potentially harmful to human health and the environment.(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 核爆炸（事故）
Translation: 来自原子核的快速反应而释放的能量，可产生高温和潜在地危害人类健康和环境的辐射。

Code:  5721
English Term: nuclear facility
Definition: A place, including buildings, where all the activities relating to nuclear research are performed.(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 核设施
Translation: 一个地方，包括实施关于核研究的所有活动的建筑物。

Code:  5722
English Term: nuclear fission
Definition: The division of an atomic nucleus into parts of comparable mass; usually restricted to heavier nuclei such as isotopes of uranium, plutonium, and thorium.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核裂变
Translation:  原子核分裂成质量相近的部分；通常局限于重核如的铀同位素、钚、钍。

Code:  5724
English Term: nuclear fuel
Definition: Nuclear fuels are obtained from inorganic minerals extracted by mining. Although they are at least partially consumed when used in nuclear reactors for the production of heat, they differ from fossil fuels in the way they release energy. Burning of fossil fuels, such as coal, oil and gas, is a chemical reaction. Nuclear fuels, such as uranium, are destroyed by a process of spontaneous disintegration, called fission, and prompted by natural radioactivity. If the process is left to occur naturally in uranium-bearing rock, the rate of change is imperceptibly small. In a man-made nuclear reactor the energy-releasing processes of disintegration, which in the natural state happen slowly over thousands of millions of years, are compressed into minutes. The release of energy is harnessed to generate steam which drives electricity generators.(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 核燃料
Translation: 核燃料是从开采提取的无机矿产品中得到。虽然它们都至少有部分消耗用于核反应堆生产热能，但它们与化石燃料在释放能量方式上有所差别。化石燃料的燃烧，如煤、石油和天然气，是一种化学反应。核子燃料，例如铀，由称为裂变的自发衰变过程所消耗并由天然放射性引起。如果这个过程是自然发生在含铀岩石中，其变化率很小。在人造核反应堆中，在自然状态下发生缓慢长达数千万年的能量释放的衰变过程，被压缩到几分钟。释放的能量是用来产生驱动电力发电机的蒸汽。

Code:  5727
English Term: nuclear fuel element
Definition: A piece of nuclear fuel which has been formed and coated, and is ready to be placed in a reactor fuel assembly.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核燃料成分
Translation: 已形成或涂层的核燃料块，并准备将放置在反应堆燃料组件中。

Code:  5728
English Term: nuclear fusion
Definition: Combination of two light nuclei to form a heavier nucleus with release of some binding energy.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核聚变
Translation: 两个轻原子核结合，形成一个较重的原子核，同时伴随结合能的释放。

Code:  12793
English Term: nuclear hazard
Definition: Risk or danger to human health or the environment posed by radiation emanating from the atomic nuclei of a given substance, or the possibility of an uncontrolled explosion originating from a fusion or fission reaction of atomic nuclei.(Source: MHD / TOE)
Chinese Term: 核危害
Translation:从一个给定的物质的原子核所产生的辐射所带来的风险或对人体健康或环境的危害或源自原子核聚变或裂变反应的不受控制的爆炸的可能性。

Code:  5733
English Term: nuclear physics
Definition: The study of the characteristics, behaviour and internal structures of the atomic nucleus.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核物理
Translation:  原子核的特征、行为和内部结构的研究。

Code:  5736
English Term: nuclear power plant
Definition: A power plant in which nuclear energy is converted into heat for use in producing steam for turbines, which in turn drive generators that produce electric power.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核电站
Translation:  核能电厂，其中的核能被转换成热能以产生推动涡轮的蒸汽，从而驱动发电机产生电。

Code:  5737
English Term: nuclear power plant disposal
Definition:
Chinese Term: 核电厂处置
Translation:

Code:  5741
English Term: nuclear reaction
Definition: A reaction involving a change in an atomic nucleus, such as fission, fusion, neutron capture, or radioactive decay, as distinct from a chemical reaction, which is limited to changes in the electron structure surrounding the nucleus.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核反应
Translation:  涉及原子核的变化如裂变、聚变、中子俘获或放射性衰变的反应，区别于化学反应，仅限于环绕原子核的电子结构变化。

Code:  5742
English Term: nuclear reactor
Definition: Device which creates heat and energy by starting and controlling atomic fission.(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 核反应堆
Translation:  启动和控制原子裂变以产生热量和能量的装置。

Code:  5745
English Term: nuclear research centre
Definition: A facility in which scientists and other researchers study the behavior and characteristics of atomic nuclei through testing and other forms of experimentation, often to invent new technology with scientific, medical and industrial purposes.(Source: RAD / MHD)
Chinese Term: 核研究中心
Translation:   一个研究场所，在这里科学家和其他研究人员通过测试和其他形式的实验来研究原子核的行为及其特点，经常发明带有科学、医学和工业用途的新技术。

Code:  12816
English Term: nuclear risk
Definition: A risk connected to the functioning of nuclear power plants, by the storage or transportation of radioactive materials and involving the release of potentially dangerous levels of radioactive materials into the environment.(Source: FEMAa)
Chinese Term: 核风险
Translation:  与核电站的功能中存储或运输放射性物质和涉及潜在危险级别的放射性物质释放到环境中有关的风险。

Code:  5746
English Term: nuclear safety
Definition: Measures and techniques implemented to reduce the possibility of incidence and the potential harm posed by radioactive substances used as an energy source, a test material or in weaponry.(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 核安全
Translation: 实现降低作为一种能源、材料或武器的放射性物质引起的发生可能性和潜在危害的措施和技术。

Code:  5747
English Term: nuclear test
Definition: Test performed to evaluate nuclear weapons.(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 核试验
Translation: 进行评估核武器的试验。

Code:  5750
English Term: nuclear weapon
Definition: Any bomb, warhead, or projectile using active nuclear material to cause a chain reaction upon detonation.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 核武器
Translation:  使用现行的核材料引起连锁爆炸反应的任何炸弹、弹头或者发射体。

Code:  5751
English Term: nucleic acid
Definition: Any of several organic acids combined with proteins (DNA or RNA) which exist in the nucleus and protoplasm of all cells.(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 核酸
Translation: 结合存在于所有细胞的细胞核和原生质的蛋白质(DNA或RNA)的任何有机酸。

Code:  5752
English Term: nuisance
Definition: Anything that affects or prejudices health.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 伤害
Translation: 影响或损害健康之事。

Code:  5755
English Term: nursery (plant breeding)
Definition: Place where plants are grown until they are large enough to be planted in their final positions.(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 苗圃
Translation: 植物生长的地方，直到它们长大到足以在它们的最后场所种植。

Code:  10704
English Term: nursery garden
Definition:
Chinese Term: 苗圃
Translation:

Code:  5763
English Term: nutrient
Definition: Chemical elements which are involved in the construction of living tissue and which are needed by both plant and animal. The most important in terms of bulk are carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, with other essential ones including nitrogen, potassium, calcium, sulphur and phosphorus.(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 营养物
Translation: 包含构建生命组织和动植物所需的化学成分。其中最重要是碳、氢、氧，以及其它必需的氮、钾、钙、硫、磷。

Code:  5757
English Term: nutrient balance
Definition: Condition in which there is equilibrium between intake and excretion of nutrients.(Source: STEDMA)
Chinese Term: 营养平衡
Translation:  营养素摄入量和排泄的平衡。

Code:  5758
English Term: nutrient content
Definition: The amount of proteins, carbohydrates, fats, inorganic salts (e.g. nitrates, phosphates), minerals (e.g. calcium, iron), and water.(Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 营养成分
Translation:  蛋白质、碳水化合物、脂肪、无机盐（如硝酸盐，磷酸盐）、矿物质（如钙，铁）和水。

Code:  5759
English Term: nutrient cycle
Definition: A biogeochemical cycle, in which inorganic nutrients move through the soil, living organisms, air and water or through some of these.(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 养分循环
Translation: 一个生物地球化学的循环，其中无机养分转移到土壤、生物体、空气和水，或通过其中的一些。

Code:  5756
English Term: nutrient medium
Definition: A medium providing or contributing to nourishment.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 营养培养基
Translation: 一个提供或造就营养的媒介。

Code:  5761
English Term: nutrient removal
Definition: Elimination of nutrients as, for example, from sewage in order to prevent eutrophication of water in reservoirs.(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 养分去除
Translation: 消除所有的营养物质，例如，为了防止储水池中水的富营养化而从污水中实施养分去除。

Code:  5765
English Term: nutrition
Definition: A process in animals and plants involving the intake of nutrient materials and their subsequent assimilation into the tissues.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 营养
Translation:  动植物中涉及养分材料吸收及其后续的吸收进入组织的一个过程。

Code: 5769
English Term: nutritive value of food
Definition: The measure of the quantity or availability of nutrients found in materials ingested and utilized by humans or animals as a source of nutrition and energy.(Source: RHW / MHD)
Chinese Term: 食品营养价值
Translation:  人类或动物作为一种营养和能量来源摄入和使用的营养素出现的的数量或可用性的度量。

Code:  5774
English Term: oak
Definition: Any tree of the genus Quercus in the order Fagales, characterized by simple, usually lobed leaves, scaly winter buds, a star-shaped pith, and its fruit, the acorn, which is a nut; the wood is tough, hard, and durable, generally having a distinct pattern.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 橡树
Translation: 任何山毛榉目栎属类的树木，其特点是简单的，通常有叶、冬鳞芽、星形髓和果实、橡子，这是坚果；木质坚硬、经久耐用，一般有清晰的纹路。

Code:  5776
English Term: objection
Definition: The act of a party who objects to some matter or proceeding in the course of a trial or an argument or reason urged by him in support of his contention that the matter or proceeding objected to is improper or illegal.(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 异议
Translation: 一方当事人强烈要求支持他的论点以反对某些事项或审讯过程的诉讼程序或论据或理由的行为，反对的问题或诉讼程序是不正当的或非法的。

Code:  5777
English Term: obligation to inform
Definition:
Chinese Term: 告知义务
Translation:

Code:  5778
English Term: obligation to label
Definition: The legal responsibility or duty compelling manufacturers to affix certain marks or other written identification to their products, as is directed by laws, regulations or government standards.(Source: BLD / FPL)
Chinese Term: 标记责任
Translation: 强制制造商对他们的产品有确定记号或其他书面标志的法律责任或义务，它是法律、法规或政府的标准所指示的。

Code:  11706
English Term: observation satellite
Definition: Man-made device that orbits the earth, receiving, processing and transmitting signals and generating images such as weather pictures.(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 观测卫星
Translation: 沿地球轨道飞行的人造设备，接收、处理和传送信号，生成图像，如天气照片。

Code:  10076
English Term: occupation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 职业
Translation:

Code:  5781
English Term: occupational disease
Definition: A functional or organic disease caused by factors arising from the operations or materials of an individual's industry, trade, or occupation.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 职业病
Translation: 一个功能性或器质性病变，由某个产业、贸易或职业的操作或材料因素所引起。

Code:  5783
English Term: occupational group
Definition: A collection of people who earn their living by similar or identical means of work.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 职业团体
Translation:  以类似或相同的工作来谋生的人的集合。

Code:  5784
English Term: occupational health
Definition: An area of statutory duty imposed on employers and employees in most countries, for the protection of the workforce from occupational diseases and stresses and physical hazards through adequate planning, ventilation, lighting, safeguards, safety and emergency procedures, routine inspections, monitoring, personal protection, etc.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 职业健康
Translation:   在大多数国家，通过采用充分的规划、通风、采光、保障、安全和应急程序、常规检查、监督、个人防护等措施以保护劳动力避免职业病、压力和身体危害而强加给雇主和雇员的法定义务范围，。

Code:  5785
English Term: occupational health care
Definition:
Chinese Term: 职业保健
Translation:

Code:  5786
English Term: occupational medicine
Definition: The branch of medicine which deals with the relationship of humans to their occupations, for the purpose of the prevention of disease and injury and the promotion of optimal health, productivity, and social adjustment.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 职业病学
Translation:  医学分支，处理人与其职业的关系，为预防伤害和疾病之目的及促进最佳的健康、生产力和社会适应力。

Code:  5787
English Term: occupational safety
Definition: An area of statutory duty imposed on employers and employees in most countries, for the protection of the workforce from occupational disease and stresses and physical hazards through appropriate measures.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 职业安全
Translation: 在大多数国家，通过适当的措施以保护劳动力避免职业病、压力和身体危害而强加给雇主和雇员的法定义务范围。

Code:  5788
English Term: occupational safety regulation
Definition: Law enacted to reduce the incidence among workers of personal injuries, illnesses, and deaths resulting from employment.(Source: BLACKa)
Chinese Term: 职业安全法规
Translation: 制定法律来减少工人来自职业的人身伤害、疾病和死亡的发生。

Code:  13339
English Term: occupational status
Definition:
Chinese Term: 职业地位
Translation:

Code: 5789
English Term: ocean
Definition: The mass of water occupying all of the Earth's surface not occupied by land, but excluding all lakes and inland seas.(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 海洋
Translation: 所有占据的地球表面而不为陆地拥有的水域，但不包括所有湖泊和内陆。

Code:  5791
English Term: ocean circulation
Definition: Water current flow in a closed circular pattern within an ocean.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海洋环流
Translation: 海洋的一个封闭的水流动循环模式。

Code:  5792
English Term: ocean current
Definition: A net transport of ocean water along a definable path.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 洋流
Translation: 一个沿着确定路径的海洋水传送网。


Code:  5793
English Term: ocean dumping
Definition: The process by which pollutants, including sewage, industrial waste, consumer waste, and agricultural and urban runoff are discharged into the world's oceans. These pollutants arise from a myriad of sources.
Chinese Term: 海洋倾倒
Translation:  海洋排放过程，其中的污染物，包括污水、工业废物、生活垃圾、农业和城市径流排入世界各大洋。这些污染物的来源无数。

Code:  12171
English Term: ocean exploitation
Definition: The utilization of the ocean for its food resources, mineral resources, and energy and water sources.(Source: PARCORa)
Chinese Term: 海洋开发
Translation: 利用海洋以提供食物源、矿产资源、能源和水源。

Code:  12170
English Term: ocean outfall
Definition: The mouth or outlet of a river, drain, sewer or any other place at which drainage or wastewater is discharged into a body of oceanic water.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 入海河口
Translation:  河流、排水沟、下水道或排入污水或水到海洋水体中的其它任何地方的开口或出口。

Code:  5799
English Term: ocean temperature
Definition: A measure, referenced to a standard value, of the heat or coldness in a body of oceanic water.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 海洋温度
Translation:   参照标准值，海洋水体热或冷的度量。

Code:  11635
English Term: ocean-air interface
Definition: The sea and the atmosphere are fluids in contact with one another, but in different energy states - the liquid and the gaseous. The free surface boundary between them inhibits, but by no means totally prevents, exchange of mass and energy between the two. Almost all interchanges across this boundary occur most effectively when turbulent conditions prevail. A roughened sea surface, large differences in properties between the water and the air, or an unstable air column that facilitates the transport of air volumes from sea surface to high in the atmosphere. Both heat and water (vapor) tend to migrate across the boundary in the direction from sea to air. Heat is exchanged by three processes: radiation, conduction, and evaporation. The largest net exchange is through evaporation, the process of transferring water from sea to air by vaporization of the water.(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 海洋大气界面
Translation: 海洋和空气彼此流动，但处于不同的能量状态--液体和气体。它们之间的自由表面边界抑制了，但绝不能完全防止，二者质量与能量的交流。当极端条件主导时，几乎所有穿过边界的交换变得非常有效。一个界限模糊的海面，水和空气性质之间的巨大差异或一个不稳定的空气柱，便于空气量从海面到高层大气的传送。高温和水（气）都倾向于穿过边界从海到空中方向移动。热交换有三个过程：辐射、传导、蒸发。最大的网络交流是通过蒸发，即从海到大气通过水蒸发的转化过程。

Code:  5794
English Term: Oceania
Definition: The islands of the southern, western and central Pacific Ocean, including Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. The term is sometimes extended to encompass Australia, New Zealand, and the Malay Archipelago.(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 大洋洲
Translation:  太平洋的南部、西部和中部的岛屿，包括美拉尼西亚、密克罗尼西亚和波利尼西亚。这个术语有时扩展包括澳大利亚、新西兰和马来群岛。

Code:  12065
English Term: oceanic climate
Definition: A regional climate which is under the predominant influence of the sea, that is, a climate characterized by oceanity; the antithesis of a continental climate.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海洋性气候
Translation: 主要受海洋影响的地区气候，即气候特点是海洋性，与之正相反的是大陆性气候。

Code:  5797
English Term: oceanography
Definition: The scientific study and exploration of the oceans and seas in all their aspects.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海洋学
Translation:  海洋所有方面的科学研究和探索。

Code:  5802
English Term: odonate
Definition:
Chinese Term: 蜻蜓目昆虫
Translation:

Code:  5804
English Term: odour
Definition: The property of a substance affecting the sense of smell; any smell; scent; perfume.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 气味
Translation: 一个影响嗅觉的物质性质；任何气味；植物香气；香水。

Code:  5806
English Term: odour nuisance
Definition:
Chinese Term: 恶臭公害
Translation:

Code:  14967
English Term: offence against the environment
Definition: Unlawful acts against the environment, such as water contamination, hazardous waste disposal, air contamination, unpermitted installation of plants, oil spills, etc.(Source: AZENPa)
Chinese Term: 危害环境
Translation: 诸如水污染、有害废物的弃置、空气污染、未经许可的工厂设备、石油泄漏等不利于环境的非法行为。

Code:  5810
English Term: office
Definition: Any room, set of rooms or building used for the administration of government service, business transactions or other work related activities.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 办公室
Translation: 为政府管理服务、商业交易或其他工作相关活动而使用的任何空间、房间或建筑物。

Code:  5811
English Term: official duty
Definition:
Chinese Term: 公务
Translation:

Code:  5812
English Term: official hearing
Definition: Proceedings of relative formality, with definite issues of fact or of law to be tried, in which witnesses are heard and parties proceeded against have right to be heard.(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 正式审讯
Translation: 相对正式的诉讼程序，具有事实或可靠法律的确定议题，其中要听取证人的证词并且诉讼各方都有权进行听证。

Code:  5814
English Term: off-peak commuting
Definition: Traveling back and forth regularly over some distance, outside of the hours of maximum traffic frequency.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 非高峰时间通勤
Translation:  交通高峰时间之外的定期地来回行驶。

Code:  5816
English Term: off-peak travelling
Definition: Relating to travelling outside rush-hours to avoid overcrowding in public means of transport.(Source: WPRa)
Chinese Term: 非高峰时间旅行
Translation: 高峰时间外的旅游，以避免公共交通的拥挤。

Code:  5818
English Term: off-peak working
Definition:
Chinese Term: 非高峰时间工作
Translation:

Code:  5820
English Term: offset policy (emissions trading)
Definition: Policy whereby emissions from a proposed new or modified stationary source are balanced by reductions from existing sources to stabilise total emissions.(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 抵消政策（排放贸易）
Translation: 从拟议的新的或变更固定源的排放通过减少现有来源以稳定总排放量而平衡的政策。

Code:  5823
English Term: offshore mining
Definition: Oil extraction from platforms situated a short distance from the coast.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 海底开采
Translation: 从距海岸不远的平台进行石油开采。

Code:  5824
English Term: offshore oil drilling
Definition: The act or process of extracting petroleum from deposits underlying the floor of the ocean or some other large body of water.(Source: ENC)
Chinese Term: 海上石油钻探
Translation:  从海洋或其它一些大的水体层底部沉积物开采石油的行为或过程。

Code:  5825
English Term: off-site
Definition: Activities taking place or located away from the site.(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 不在现场
Translation: 远离发生或现场的活动。

Code:  5835
English Term: oil and fat industry
Definition: Industry for the production and processing of edible oils and fats.(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 油脂产业
Translation:  生产和加工食用油和脂肪的产业。

Code:  5827
English Term: oil binding agent
Definition: Highly absorbent agents used for physically removing spilled oil in case of leakages and oil accidents occurring in water bodies, industry, work-shops, on roads, etc. Materials that have been found useful for this service vary from simple, naturally occurring materials such as straw, sawdust, and peat to synthetic agents, such as polyurethane foam and polystyrene powder.(Source: FUNKE /  PZ)
Chinese Term: 油黏合剂
Translation: 高度吸收剂，用于完全清除石油泄漏或水体、工业、工厂、道路上等发生的石油事故的溢油。已经发现的对该服务有用的材料，来自于不同的简单和自然形成的原料，如稻草、锯末以及泥炭合成剂，如聚氨酯泡沫、聚苯乙烯粉。

Code:  5830
English Term: oil boom
Definition: A floating device used to contain oil on a body of water. Once the boom has been inflated, it is towed downwind of the oil slick and formed into a U-shape; under the influence of wind, the oil becomes trapped within the boom. Skimming equipment travels into the boom enclosure and the oil is pumped into containers.(Source: EPAGLO /  GILP)
Chinese Term: 拦油栅
Translation:  用来容纳水体中石油的浮动装置。一旦栅栏充气膨胀，就顺风牵引在浮油处形成一个“U”型；在风的影响下，油在栅栏中淤积。浮油刮集装置进入拦油栅围栏，石油被抽入容器。

Code:  5831
English Term: oil disaster
Definition: The disaster caused by the dumping and accidental spillage of oil into waterways from ships and land-based or offshore installations. Oil pollution may destroy or damage aquatic life and wildlife such as birds, contaminate water supplies and create fire hazards.(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 油污灾难
Translation: 来自船舶、陆域或海上设备进入水路的石油的倾倒和意外泄漏而造成的灾难。石油污染可能毁损水生生物和野生动物，如鸟；污染水源和产生火灾。

Code:  5833
English Term: oil exploration
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 石油勘探
Translation:

Code:  5834
English Term: oil extraction
Definition: Recovery of oil by surface mining, as in tar sands or oil shales, or from tunnels in a shallow reservoir.(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 采油
Translation:  表面开采以回收石油，如在沥青沙、油页岩中或来自浅油藏的隧洞。

Code: 5836
English Term: oil pipeline
Definition: A line of pipe connected to valves and other control devices, for conducting oil.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 输油管线
Translation: 一条管道连接到阀和其他控制装置进行石油输送。

Code:  5837
English Term: oil pollution
Definition: Contamination of any ecosystem, but usually of freshwater or marine ecosystems, by oil or other petroleum products.(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 石油污染
Translation:  通常由石油或其他石油产品造成的淡水或海洋生态系统的任何污染。

Code:  5838
English Term: oil pollution abatement
Definition: There are various systems for the abatement of oil pollution at sea: the "Load-on-top" system involves passing the washing from tank cleaning operations and residue from discharge of the original ballast water to an empty cargo tank nominated as the "slop" tank. Fresh oil cargo is loaded on top of the final residue left after further discharges of water, the resulting mixture being acceptable to refineries despite some additional cost in removing the salt and water. Under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, all oil-carrying ships will be required to be capable of operating with this method of retention, or alternatively to discharge to reception facilities. Another method consists in spraying on the oil dispersives and/or blasting straw and sawdust, functioning as "blotting paper", onto water, beaches, rocks and docks. The Vikoma System for the containment of oil spills at sea, developed by British Petroleum, a seaboom of about 500 metres in length, is inflated and towed downwind of the oil slick and formed into a U-shape; under the influence of wind, the oil becomes trapped within the boom. Skimming equipment travels into the boom enclosure and the oil is pumped into containers.(Source: GILP)
Chinese Term: 石油污染治理
Translation:  用于海上石油污染治理的各项制度：这个“顶部装载”的制度包括从清洗作业舱传递洗涤物和从最初的载水仓排放的残余物到一个命名为“溢出”舱的空货舱。新油装在进一步的排水后的最后残余物上面，此混合物被炼油厂所接收，尽管有去除盐和水的一些额外成本。根据1973年国际防止船舶污染公约，所有石油运载船舶将要求有实施该方法的能力，或者有作为选择的排放接收设施。另一种方法包括对石油扩散物喷洒和/或气流吹鼓一些功能如“吸墨纸”的秸秆和木屑到水、沙滩、岩石和码头上。为遏制海上石油泄漏的Vikoma系统，由英国石油公司开发，是一个约500米长的拦油栅，充气膨胀后由浮油顺风牵引形成一个U形；在风的影响下，油在栅栏中淤积。浮油刮集装置进入拦油栅围栏，石油被抽入容器。

Code:  12482
English Term: oil production (chain)
Definition: The petroleum industry is a complex industry utilizing complex combination of interdependent operations engaged in the storage and transportation, separation of crude molecular constituents, molecular cracking, molecular rebuilding and solvent finishing to produce petrochemical products. Treatment may involve oil separation, precipitation, adsorption, and biological treatment. The refining operations can be divided into four major steps: separation, conversion, treating, and blending. The crude oil is first separated into selected fractions (gasoline, kerosine, fuel oil, etc.). Some of the less valuable products such as heavy naphtha, are converted to products with a greater sale value such as gasoline. The final step is the blending of the refined base stocks with each other and various additive to meet final product specifications. The major pollutants emitted are sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and malodorous materials.(Source: PZ)
Chinese Term: 石油生产（链）
Translation: 石油工业是一个复杂的产业，利用复杂的相互依赖的业务组合从事石油化工产品的储存、运输及原油分离、裂解、重组和溶剂加工。加工手段包括油分离、沉淀、吸附及生物处理。炼油业务可分为四个主要步骤：分离、转化、处理和混合。原油首先分为可选择成分（汽油、煤油、燃料油等）。有些低价值产品，如重石脑油，被转换为如汽油这些更大销售价值的产品。最后一步是彼此混合精炼油品和不同的添加剂，以满足最终产品的规格。石油工业的主要排放污染物是硫氧化物、氮氧化物、碳氢化合物、一氧化碳和恶臭物质。

Code:  5839
English Term: oil recovery vessel
Definition: Boats used for recovering oil spilled at sea from oil tankers. The recommended procedure is to contain and physically recover the spill with or without the use of adsorbents. This approach entails three processes: a) confinement of the spill by spill booms; b) recovery of the spill by sorbing agents; c) physical removal of the contained oil by oil pick-up devices.(Source: JBFENV /  PZ)
Chinese Term: 水面浮油回收船
Translation: 用于海上油轮泄漏石油回收的船。推荐步骤是在使用或未使用吸附剂下控制和完全回收泄漏石油。这种方法需要三个过程：一）拦油栅堵截包围泄漏物；二）通过吸附剂回收泄漏石油；三）通过精炼设备提取回收物。

Code:  5840
English Term: oil refinery
Definition: System of process units used to convert crude petroleum into fuels, lubricants, and other petroleum-derived products.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 炼油厂
Translation:  用于原油转换成燃料、润滑油和其他石油衍生产品的加工处理单位。

Code:  5841
English Term: oil refining
Definition: The separation of petroleum mixtures into their component parts.(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 炼油
Translation: 石油混合物分离成其组成部分。

Code:  5843
English Term: oil residue recuperation
Definition: The recovery of oil that is leftover or left behind, usually following the primary containment operations for an oil spill.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 残油回收
Translation: 残余的或遗留的石油回收，通常首先对油轮漏油采取堵截包围操作。

Code:  5847
English Term: oil shale
Definition: A kerogen-bearing, finely laminated brown or black sedimentary rock that will yield liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons on distillation.(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 油页岩
Translation: 油母岩质物，细薄板状的棕色或黑色沉积岩，蒸馏将产生液态或气态碳氢化合物。

Code:  5848
English Term: oil slick
Definition: The mass of oil that floats on a surface of water, which is discharged accidentally, naturally or by design, and can be moved by currents, tides and the wind.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 浮油
Translation: 浮在水面上的大量石油，是意外地、自然地或有意地泻出，可以通过水流、潮汐和风力移动。

Code:  5852
English Term: oil spill
Definition: The accidental release of oil, or other petroleum products usually into freshwater or marine ecosystems, and usually in large quantities. It can be controlled by chemical dispersion, combustion, mechanical containment, and absorption.(Source: RRDA /  LANDYa)
Chinese Term: 油轮漏油
Translation: 意外泄漏的石油或其他石油产品，进入淡水或海洋生态系统，通常量大。它可以通过化学分散、燃烧、机械封堵和吸收加以控制。

Code:  5854
English Term: oil tanker
Definition: A very large ship which carries crude oil or other petroleum products in big tanks.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 油轮
Translation: 一个非常大的船，装载原油或其他石油产品。

Code:  5829
English Term: oil-based energy
Definition: Energy produced using oil as fuel.(Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 燃油能源
Translation: 利用石油作为燃料产生的能源。

Code:  14951
English Term: old hazardous site
Definition: Abandoned or disused dumps and refuse tips, stockpiles and landfill sites, disused petrol service stations, closed-down coking plants and former industrial and commercial premises, etc., from which considerable risks not only to the soil and to the groundwater, but also to humans and nature, can arise.(Source: AZENP)
Chinese Term: 旧有害场址
Translation: 废弃的或不再使用的垃圾堆放场、贮藏堆和垃圾填埋场、废弃加油站、关闭的焦化厂及旧工业及商业楼宇等，不仅对土壤和地下水有相当大的风险，而且还可能会出现对人类与自然的危害。

Code:  5856
English Term: old landfill site
Definition: Landfill that has been filled and covered with topsoil and seeded. The most common end use for landfills is open spaces with no active recreation taking place over the completed landfill. The obvious reason for this use is that the completed surface is steeply sloped to provide rapid runoff. Also, no irrigation of the cover grasses should be allowed. It is very unlikely to think that commercial or industrial buildings will be constructed on a completed landfill. If the end use is such that the public will be walking on the site, it is important that all manholes be properly secured, leachate lagoons fenced, and other potential hazards eliminated.(Source: CORBITa)
Chinese Term: 旧垃圾填埋点
Translation: 已被填满并覆盖了表层土和播种的填埋场。堆填区最常见的最终用途是完成垃圾填埋后的非动态康乐用地。此用途明显的原因是，表面急剧倾斜以迅速提供径流。此外，应允许覆草无灌溉。商业或工业建筑建在一个垃圾填埋场上这认为是非常不可能的。如果最终用途是这样，公众将在场地上行走，但重要的是所有下水道口须适当安全固定，围栏渗滤泻湖以及消除其它潜在危险。

Code:  5863
English Term: olfactometry
Definition: The testing and measurement of the sensitivity of the sense of smell. (Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 嗅觉测量法
Translation:  嗅觉的灵敏度测试和测量。

Code:  5862
English Term: olfactory pollution
Definition: Pollution produced by gaseous emissions in the atmosphere that, even in very small amounts, may cause injuries or a condition of general unease or sickness to persons living in the vicinity.(Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 嗅觉污染
Translation:大气中的气体排放物产生的污染，即使是非常小的量，也可能会导致在附近居住的人们的伤害、不舒服或生病。

Code:  2330
English Term: olive oil mill wastewater
Definition: Aqueous residue deriving from the process of oil extraction from olives; it is composed of the olive-combined water and of the water used in the extraction and washing processes. It also contains a certain percentage of mineral compounds and of organic substances that are only partially biodegradable.  (Source: UIB /  FLGISAa)
Chinese Term: 橄榄油厂废水
Translation: 橄榄油提取过程中产生的水性残留物，它是由橄榄混合水组成，水用于提取和洗涤的过程。它也含有一定比例的矿物成分，及仅部分是可生物降解的有机物质。

Code:  5869
English Term: onchocerciasis
Definition: Infection with the filaria Onchocerca volvulus; results in skin tumours, papular dermatitis, and ocular complications.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 盘尾丝虫感染
Translation: 盘尾丝虫；导致皮肤肿瘤、丘疹性皮炎和眼部并发症。

Code:  5870
English Term: oncology
Definition: The study of the causes, development, characteristics, and treatment of tumors.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 肿瘤学
Translation: 肿瘤的的起因、发展、特征和治疗的研究。


Code:  14940
English Term: on-line service
Definition: Service providing an active connection with a communications network.(Source: DBMDE)
Chinese Term: 在线服务
Translation:  提供通信网络活动连接的服务。

Code:  12259
English Term: on-site wastewater treatment
Definition: A process in which used or spent water is treated at the point of origin or where it was produced, by using a septic tank or some other system to remove or reduce  the impact of constituent wastes on human health and the environment.(Source: WQL / WWC)
Chinese Term: 现场废水处理
Translation:  在来源点或产生地的废水处理过程，通过使用化粪池或其它一些系统以消除或减少废物成分对人类健康和环境的影响。

Code:  13111
English Term: ontogenesis
Definition: The entire sequence of events involved in the development of an individual organism.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 个体发育
Translation:   涉及个体生物体发展的整个一系列事件。

Code:  13117
English Term: open lawn
Definition: Any relatively unobstructed field of cultivated and mown grass, especially near a house or in a park.(Source: GWG / RHW)
Chinese Term: 开放草坪
Translation: 任何相对通畅的栽植和已割的草地区域，特别是靠近居民住房或者在一个公园里。

Code:  10158
English Term: open sea
Definition: The high seas lying outside the exclusive economic zones of states. All states have equal rights to navigate, to overfly, to lay submarine cables, to construct artificial islands, to fish, and to conduct scientific research within the high seas.(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 公海
Translation: 超出了国家专属经济区的外海。所有国家都有平等的权利去航行、飞越、铺设海底电缆、建设人工岛屿、捕鱼，并可在公海进行科研。

Code:  5875
English Term: open sea fishing
Definition: Fishing in the deepest parts of the sea.(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 远海捕鱼
Translation:  在海洋最纵深处捕鱼。

Code:  5874
English Term: opencast mining
Definition: Extracting metal ores and minerals that lie near the surface by removing the overlying material and breaking and loading the ore.(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 露天开采
Translation: 通过移去上层物料、爆破和装载矿石，以近地表方式提取金属矿石和矿产品。

Code:  5877
English Term: operating data
Definition: Data referring to the practical carrying-out of a process.(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 运行数据
Translation:  实际执行过程中的数据。

Code:  5880
English Term: opinion
Definition: Judgement or belief not founded on certainty or proof.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 主张
Translation: 不是建立在确定性或已证明的看法或信念。

Code:  11128
English Term: opinion survey
Definition: The canvassing of a representative sample of a large group of people on some question in order to determine the general opinion of a group.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 民意调查
Translation: 对一些问题调查一大群人的代表性样本，以确定一个团体的普遍看法。

Code:  11494
English Term: order
Definition: 1) A direction or command of a court. In this sense it is often used synonymously with judgment. 2) The document bearing the seal of the court recording its judgment in a case.(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 决议
Translation: 1）指示或法院命令。在这个意义上，它经常被用作判决的同义词。2）印有法院印章记录案件判决的文件。

Code:  7087
English Term: ordinance
Definition: A rule established by authority; a permanent rule of action; a law or statute. In its most common meaning, the term is used to designate the enactment of the legislative body.(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 法令
Translation: 由管理当局设立的规则；一个永久的行动规则；一个法律或法规。在最普通的含义上，这个词是用于立法机构制定的法规。

Code:  5887
English Term: ore
Definition: A mineral or mineral aggregate, more or less mixed with gangue, that can be worked and treated at a profit.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 矿石
Translation: 可以开发和处理以获利的矿石或矿物聚集体，或多或少与脉石混合在一起。

Code: 5890
English Term: organ
Definition: A fully differentiated structural and functional unit, such as a kidney or a root, in an animal or plant.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 器官
Translation: 一个完全分化的结构和功能单位，如动物的肾脏或植物的根。

Code:  5892
English Term: organic carbon
Definition: Carbon which comes from an animal or plant. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 有机碳
Translation:  来自于动物或植物的碳。

Code:  5893
English Term: organic chemistry
Definition: A branch of chemistry dealing with the study of composition, reaction, properties, etc. of organic compounds.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 有机化学
Translation: 化学的一个分支，处理有机化合物的组成、反应、性质等的研究。

Code:  5897
English Term: organic farming
Definition: Farming without the use of industrially made fertilizers or pesticides.(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 有机农业
Translation:  没有使用工业制造化肥和农药的农业。

Code:  11227
English Term: organic matter
Definition: Plant and animal residue that decomposes and becomes a part of the soil.(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 有机物
Translation: 植物和动物的残留物，分解并成为土壤的一部分。

Code:  11714
English Term: organic nitrogen
Definition: Essential nutrient of the food supply of plants and the diets of animals. Animals obtain it in nitrogen-containing compounds, particularly aminoacids. Although the atmosphere is nearly 80% gaseous nitrogen, very few organisms have the ability to use it in this form. The higher plants normally obtain it from the soil after microorganisms have converted the nitrogen into ammonia or nitrates, which they can then absorb. This conversion of nitrogen, known as nitrogen fixation, is essential for the formation of amino acids which, in turn, are the building blocks of proteins.(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 有机氮
Translation: 动植物食品供给的基本养分。动物获取含氮化合物，特别氨基酸。虽然空气含有接近80%的气体氮，但很少有生物有能力以此形式使用它。通常在微生物已将氮转化成氨水或硝酸盐后，高等植物从土壤中获得它并能吸收。氮的这种转换，称为固氮，对形成氨基酸即蛋白质的构件，起着至关重要的作用。

Code:  5902
English Term: organic pollutant
Definition: A plant- or animal-produced pollutant containing mainly carbon, hydrogen and oxygen.(Source: ERG)
Chinese Term: 有机污染物
Translation: 植物或动物产生的污染物，主要含碳、氢和氧。

Code:  11644
English Term: organic pollution
Definition: Pollution caused by animal or plant material derived from living and dead organisms that may contain pathogenic bacteria and negatively influences the environment.(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 有机污染
Translation:  来源于活的和死亡的动物或植物生物体而引成的污染，可能包含致病菌和对环境的负面影响。

Code:  5910
English Term: organic solvent
Definition: Organic materials, including diluents and thinners, which are liquids at standard conditions and which are used as dissolvers, viscosity reducers, or cleaning agents.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 有机溶剂
Translation: 有机材料，包括稀释剂和冲淡剂，它在标准条件是液体并被用作溶解装置、粘度还原剂或清洗剂。

Code: 7668
English Term: shooting range
Definition: Area designed for target shooting.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 射击场，靶场
Translation: 为射击而设计的场所

Code: 7669
English Term: shop
Definition: A place, especially a small building, for the retail sale of goods and services.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 商店
Translation: 一个地方，尤其是用于零售货物和服务的小型建筑。

Code: 7670
English Term: shopping centre
Definition: Enclosed area in which there is a variety of shops.(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term:购物中心
Translation:内有各种各样的商店的一个封闭领域。

Code: 7679
English Term: show
Definition: A performance, program or exhibition providing entertainment to a group of people, displayed either through some communication media, such as radio or television, or live at a museum or theater.(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:显示，节目
Translation:通过一些通信媒体，比如广播或电视或在博物馆及剧院现场，以表演或展览的形式向一些人提供娱乐。

Code: 7680
English Term: shredder
Definition: A size-reduction machine which tears or grinds materials to a smaller and more uniform particle size. Shredding process is also called size reduction, grinding, milling, comminution, pulverisation, hogging, granulating, breaking, chipping, crushing, cutting, rasping.(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 锤碎机
Translation:用于把材料研磨成更小更均匀颗粒的一部机器，粉碎过程也称为尺寸的缩小，包括磨、铣、粉碎、研碎、独占、制粒、打破、切削、破碎、切割、锉磨。

Code: 7683
English Term: shrub
Definition: A woody perennial plant, smaller than a tree, with several major branches arising from near the base of the main stem.(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 灌木
Translation:多年生长的草本植物，比树小，枝干是从树的靠根的主干长出来的

Code: 7684
English Term: shunting yard
Definition: Area where a car or a train can be shoven or turned off or moved from one track to another.
Chinese Term:调车场
Translation: 一个汽车或火车出发或者从一个地方转向另外一个地方的场所。

Code: 7686
English Term: sick building syndrome
Definition: A set of symptoms, including headaches, fatigue, eye irritation, and dizziness, typically affecting workers in modern airtight office buildings and thought to be caused by indoor pollutants, such as formaldehyde fumes, particulate matter, microorganisms, etc.
Chinese Term: 病态楼宇综合症
Translation: 包括头痛，疲劳，眼睛不适，头晕等的一整套症状，特别发生在现代密闭办公大楼的工作者身上，被认为是由室内污染物，如甲醛气体，造成颗粒物，微生物引起的。



Code: 7688
English Term: side effect
Definition: Any secondary effect, especially an undesirable one.
Chinese Term:(药物等起到的)副作用
Translation:一些继发效应，特别是指非期望的作用。

Code: 7689
English Term: side effects of pharmaceutical drugs
Definition:
Chinese Term: 对药品的不良反应
Translation:

Code: 7690
English Term: sieving
Definition: The size distribution of solid particles on a series of standard sieves of decreasing size, expressed as a weight percent.
Chinese Term: 筛(选),筛分(法)
Translation: 用一个减少的尺寸标准的筛使得固体颗粒按大小分布，表示成为一个重量百分比

Code: 7692
English Term: silencer
Definition: Any device designed to reduce noise, especially the device in the exhaust system of a motor vehicle.
Chinese Term:消音器
Translation:用以降低噪声的设备，尤其指汽车的排气系统装置。

Code: 7694
English Term: silicon
Definition: A brittle metalloid element that exists in two allotropic forms; occurs principally in sand, quartz, granite, feldspar, and clay. It is usually a grey crystalline solid but is also found as a brown amorphous powder. It is used in transistors, rectifiers, solar cells, and alloys. Its compounds are widely used in glass manufacture, the building industry, and in the form of silicones.
Chinese Term: 硅,矽
Translation: 脆性非金属元素，以两个同素异形体的形式组成，主要存在于砂，石英，花岗岩，长石，粘土。通常是灰色的晶体，但也发现有棕色无定形粉末。它用在晶体管，整流器，太阳能电池，和合金中。它的化合物被广泛应用于玻璃制造、建筑业，以及在有机硅的形式。

Code: 7697
English Term: silo
Definition: A large round tower on a farm for storing grain or winter food for cattle.
Chinese Term:地窖
Translation:一个大的圆形塔，用于存储粮食或冬季喂牲口的食物。

Code: 7698
English Term: silt
Definition: The fine mineral material formed from the erosion of rock fragments and deposited by rivers and lakes. Its particles are the intermediate form between sand and clay. The particles can range in size from 0.01-0.05 mm in diameter.
Chinese Term: 淤泥,淤滓
Translation:河流和湖泊中由于岩石碎片侵蚀和沉积而形成的优质矿物材料。它的微粒是沙子和粘土之间的中间形式。直径大小为0.01-0.05毫米左右。

Code: 12123
English Term: silting up
Definition: The filling or partial filling with silt of a reservoir that receives fine-grained sediment brought in by streams and surface runoff.
Chinese Term: 淤塞
Translation:溪流或地表径流而产生的细粒沉淀物，淤积下来的泥沙填灌或者部分填灌。

Code: 7699
English Term: silver
Definition: A very ductile malleable brilliant greyish-white element having the highest electrical and thermal conductivity of any metal. It occurs free and in argentite and other ores: used in jewellery, tableware, coinage, electrical contacts, and in electroplating. Its compounds are used in photography.
Chinese Term:银
Translation:一种非常有韧性闪亮的灰白元素，是导电导热性最强的金属。它产生于银矿等矿产，用于珠宝、餐具、造币，与电有关的接触，及在电镀方面。它的化合物可以被用于摄影。

Code: 7702
English Term: simulation
Definition: A representation of a problem, situation in mathematical terms, especially using a computer.
Chinese Term:模拟
Translation:一个代表性的问题，使用计算机描绘数学方面的状况。

Code: 11312
English Term: single family dwelling
Definition: An unattached dwelling unit inhabited by an adult person plus one or more related persons.
Chinese Term:单亲家庭住宅
Translation:由一个成人和一个或多个有亲缘关系的人员居住的一个单独的住所

Code: 14217
English Term: sinking of waste
Definition: sinking of material is dumped or submerged beneath the surface of a body of water.
Chinese Term:沉废物
Translation: 物质被倾倒或沉没在水体表面以下。

Code: 7707
English Term: sintering
Definition: Forming a coherent bonded mass by heating metal powders without melting, used mostly in powder metallurgy.
Chinese Term:烧结
Translation: 没有成型的加热熔化金属粉末，多用于粉末冶金。

Code: 10237
English Term: site protection
Definition: Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken to prevent or reduce harm to the environmental integrity of a physical area or location.
Chinese Term:网站保护
Translation: 为防止或减少对一个地区的完整性的损害而采取预防措施、程序、设备。

Code: 10240
English Term: site rehabilitation
Definition: The restoration of the ecological quality of an area or location.
Chinese Term:网站修复
Translation:在一个地区或地点恢复生态质量。

Code: 7709
English Term: site selection
Definition: The process of choosing or picking a location or area for some designated purpose.
Chinese Term:选址
Translation: 选择或挑选一个位置用作指定用途的进程。

Code: 13227
English Term: size of business
Definition:
Chinese Term: 经营规模
Translation:

Code: 7712
English Term: sizing
Definition: To fix the cross-section of structural components on the basis of statics and material strength.
Chinese Term:定型
Translation: 在静力学和材料强度的基础上固定横截面的结构部分。

Code: 10861
English Term: ski run
Definition: A trail, slope, or course for skiing.
Chinese Term: 滑雪坡
Translation: 滑雪的坡道、坡度或课程。

Code: 7715
English Term: skiing
Definition: Gliding over snow on skis, especially as a sport.
Chinese Term:滑雪
Translation:用滑雪板滑行在雪地上，尤其是作为一项运动。


Code: 7716
English Term: skin
Definition: The tissue forming the outer covering of the vertebrate body: it consists of two layers, the outermost of which may be covered with hair, scales, feathers, etc. It is mainly protective and sensory in function.
Chinese Term:皮肤
Translation:脊椎动物的外层形成的组织：有两层，其外层由头发、鳞片、羽毛等覆盖，这主要有保护和感觉功能。

Code: 7718
English Term: skyline destruction
Definition:
Chinese Term:天际线的破坏
Translation:

Code: 7720
English Term: slag
Definition: A nonmetallic product resulting from the interaction of flux and impurities in the smelting and refining of metals.
Chinese Term:矿渣，熔渣
Translation:金属冶炼过程中的杂质相互作用所产生的非金属产品

Code: 11206
English Term: slash and burn culture
Definition: A traditional farming system that has been used by generations of farmers in tropical forests and the savannah of north and east Africa. It is known to be an ecologically sound form of cultivation, and because the soil is poor in tropical rain forests it is a sustainable method of farming. It is still practised today, primarily in the developing countries. Small areas of bush or forests are cleared and the smaller trees burned. This unlocks the nutrients in the vegetation and gives the soil fertilizer that is easily taken up by plants. A few years later the soil is degraded and the farmer moves on to do the same at another site. The original ground is left fallow for anything up to 20 years so that the forest can regenerate. With the growth in population and in the subsequent need for more farming land to produce food, the method is increasingly being used today to clear large areas of tropical forests for cattle ranching, and in most cases the ground is not left fallow for long enough and, with modern mechanized farming systems, not enough tree stumps or suitable habitats for plant life are left to start the regeneration process.
Chinese Term:刀耕火种文化
Translation: :在热带北部和东部非洲的热带草原生活的世代农民使用的传统的耕作系统。这是一个被认可的生态良好的耕作方式，而且由于热带森林的土壤贫瘠，这更是一个农业可持续的方法。这在今天仍然实行，主要是在发展中国家。小部分的森林的灌木被清除，较小的树木被烧毁。解锁植被的养分，给土壤肥料，很容易被植物吸收。几年后，土壤退化，农民又移到另一地点做同样的事。原来的地面而任由荒废任何东西长达20年，可使森林再生。随着人口增长，随后需要更多耕地生产粮食，该方法是目前越来越多地被用来清除大面积的热带森林，用于放牧，在大多数情况下，再也没有留下土地用于足够长时间的休耕及现代机械化耕作系统，没有足够的树桩植物或适宜栖息地留下来启动再生过程。


Code: 7724
English Term: slaughterhouse
Definition: A place where animals are butchered for food.
Chinese Term:屠宰场
Translation:屠杀动物以取得食物的场所。

Code: 7725
English Term: slaughterhouse waste
Definition: Animal body parts cut off in the preparation of carcasses for use as food. This waste can come from several sources including slaughterhouses, restaurants, stores and farms.
Chinese Term: 屠宰场废物
Translation:在取食作为食物的畜体时切除的动物身体的那部分，这些废料有屠宰场、餐馆、商店和农场等几个来源。

Code: 7726
English Term: slaughtering of animals
Definition: Killing of animals for food.
Chinese Term:屠宰动物
Translation:杀动物以食用。

Code: 7729
English Term: sleep
Definition: A periodic state of physiological rest during which consciousness is suspended and metabolic rate is decreased.
Chinese Term:睡觉
Translation:一段意识暂停，代谢率较低的生理时间。

Code: 7730
English Term: sleep disturbance
Definition:
Chinese Term:睡眠障碍
Translation:

Code: 4186
English Term: slope
Definition: The inclined surface of any part of the Earth's surface, as a hillslope; also, a broad part of a continent descending toward an ocean, as the Pacific slope.
Chinese Term: 斜坡, 斜面
Translation:地球倾斜的表面，如坡面；也指由大陆往海底倾斜的很宽的部分，如太平洋斜坡。

Code: 7733
English Term: sludge
Definition: 1) A soft, soupy, or muddy bottom deposit, such as found on tideland or in a stream bed. &#10;2) A semifluid, slushy, murky mass of sediment resulting from treatment of water, sewage, or industrial and mining wastes, and often appearing as local bottom deposits in polluted bodies of water.
Chinese Term: 污泥
Translation: 1）软糊状的，或泥底淤积，如发现于涨潮海岸或河床。2）工业或矿业废料处理产生的大量泥沙浑浊、半流体、泥泞、污水，通常作为局部的底部废物出现在在受污染的水中。

Code: 7737
English Term: sludge digestion
Definition: A treatment to stabilize raw sludge. The treatment can be either anaerobic process or aerobic process.
Chinese Term: 污泥消化法
Translation:一种稳定原料污泥的治疗方法，这种治疗可以是厌氧的也可以是有氧的过程。


Code: 7738
English Term: sludge incineration
Definition: A method used for drying and reducing sludge volume and weight. Since incineration requires auxiliary fuel to obtain and maintain high temperature and to evaporate the water contained in the incoming sludge, concentration techniques should be applied before incineration. Sludge incineration is a two-step process involving drying and combustion after a preceding dewatering process, such as filters, drying beds, or centrifuges.
Chinese Term:污泥焚烧
Translation: 干燥和减少污泥的体积和重量所使用的方法。由于焚烧需要辅助燃料以获得和维持高温蒸发，并蒸发所送入的污泥中的水，焚化之前浓度应使用浓缩技术。污泥焚烧是一个两步的过程，涉及脱水之后的干燥和燃烧，如过滤器、干燥床或离心机。

Code: 7739
English Term: sludge settling pond
Definition: Pond for the removal of settleable solids through which wastewater is passed in a treatment works.
Chinese Term: 淤泥沉淀池
Translation:一个用于清除可沉淀固体物的池子，通过这个过程废水在处理过程中被滤除。

Code: 12446
English Term: sludge stabilisation
Definition: Usually anaerobic sludge digestion, a treatment that stabilizes raw sludge. Fully digested sludge has little readily biodegradable organic matter. It is not smelly and about 50% of the solids are inorganic. Sludge can also be digested aerobically.
Chinese Term:污泥稳定
Translation: 通常厌氧污泥消化是通过治疗使原污泥稳定。充分消化的污泥几乎没有生物所能分解的有机物。无臭且大约50％的固体是无机物。污泥也可以被有氧作用消化。

Code: 7740
English Term: sludge treatment
Definition: The processing of wastewater sludges to render them innocuous. This may be done by aerobic or anaerobic digestion followed by drying in sand beds, filtering, and incineration, filtering, and drying, or wet air oxidation.
Chinese Term: 污泥处理
Translation: 处理废水污泥使其变得无害。这可以由干燥的沙床、过滤和焚烧，过滤后被有氧或厌氧作用消化、干燥或湿空气氧化。

Code: 7742
English Term: sluice
Definition: Vertical sliding gate or valve to regulate the flow of water in a channel or lock.
Chinese Term: 水闸
Translation: 垂直滑动闸门、阀门、调节水渠道或锁定流动。

Code: 13781
English Term: sluice-gate
Definition: A valve or gate fitted to a sluice to control the rate of flow of water.
Chinese Term: 水闸门
Translation: 阀门或安装在水闸中来控制水流量的门。

Code: 7747
English Term: small and medium sized industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 中小型产业
Translation:

Code: 7752
English Term: Small Islands (political geography)
Definition:
Chinese Term: 小型岛屿（政治地理）
Translation:


Code: 11974
English Term: small power station
Definition: Power station of small size for the generation of energy at local level.
Chinese Term: 小型发电厂
Translation:在地方一级用能源发电的小规模电站。

Code: 7755
English Term: small-scale furnace
Definition: Small enclosed structures containing a heat source, typically used for the purpose of intense heating. Most are lined with refractory material, the heat source is typically provided by electrical elements or the burning of gas, coke or coal.
Chinese Term: 小型熔炉
Translation:包含一个热源，通常用于取暖的小型密闭结构。大部分两旁有耐火材料，热源通常是由电子元件或气体，焦炭和煤燃烧提供。


Code: 7756
English Term: small-scale inducer
Definition: A domestic source introducing small quantities of pollutants into a publicly owned waste-treatment system.
Chinese Term: 小型输送器
Translation: 引入少量污染物到一个公有废物处理系统的内部源。

Code: 7759
English Term: smog
Definition: Air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. The air pollution caused by the action of sunlight on unburned hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides, mostly from car exhaust. It occurs over large industrial areas and urban complexes, and causes eye irritations, breathing problems and damage to plant life.
Chinese Term: 烟雾
Translation:烟和雾组成的空气污染。是未燃尽碳氢化合物和氮氧化物造成空气污染，大部分来自汽车尾气。它发生在较大的工业区和城市综合建筑物，并导致眼睛发炎，呼吸困难，破坏植物生命。

Code: 7760
English Term: smog warning
Definition: Action, device or announcement that serves to give caution or notice to the level of air pollutants typically associated with oxidants in a given area.
Chinese Term: 烟雾警报
Translation: 行动，设备或宣布等服务给予警告或通知空气污染物的水平。通常与某一地区氧化剂有关。

Code: 7761
English Term: smoke
Definition: An aerosol, consisting of visible particles and gases, produced by the incomplete burning of carbon-based materials, such as wood and fossil fuels.
Chinese Term: 烟
Translation: 一种气溶胶，由可见颗粒和碳基础材料的不完全燃烧产生的气体组成，碳基础材料如木材和矿物燃料。

Code: 7763
English Term: smoke prevention
Definition:
Chinese Term:防烟
Translation:

Code: 7765
English Term: smoking
Definition: The inhalation and exhalation of carcinogenic fumes from burning plant material, usually tobacco.
Chinese Term: 吸烟, 抽烟
Translation:呼吸由植物材料通常是烟草燃烧所产生的致癌气体。

Code: 7617
English Term: snake
Definition: Any reptile of the suborder Ophidia, typically having a scaly cylindrical limbless body, fused eyelids, and a jaw modified for swallowing large prey: includes venomous forms such as cobras and rattlesnakes, large nonvenomous constrictors, and small harmless types such as the grass snake.
Chinese Term: 蛇
Translation:蛇类爬行动物，一般具有鳞片圆柱形截肢体，融合眼皮，吞咽和大型猎物，颚骨：包括有毒的形式，如眼镜蛇和响尾蛇，大型无毒蛇，如草蛇和小型无害的类型。

Code: 7769
English Term: snow
Definition: The most common form of frozen precipitation, usually flakes or starlike crystals, matted ice needles, or combinations, and often rime-coated.
Chinese Term:雪
Translation: 被冻结的降水的最常见的形式，通常呈片或星形水晶，或褪色的冰针，或其组合最常见的形式，而且经常是雾淞涂层。


Code: 7771
English Term: snowslide
Definition: An avalanche of relatively pure snow; some rock and earth material may also be carried downward.
Chinese Term:雪崩
Translation: 一个相对纯净积雪雪崩，一些岩石和泥土材料也进行下调。

Code: 7774
English Term: soaking
Definition: Absorption of liquid by a solid or a semisolid material.
Chinese Term: 浸湿
Translation:被固体或半固体物质吸收的液体。


Code: 7776
English Term: soap
Definition: A cleansing agent, manufactured in bars, granules, flakes, or liquid form, made from a mixture of the sodium salts of various fatty acids of natural oils and fats.
Chinese Term:肥皂
Translation:被制造成条状，颗粒，片，或液体形式，从天然油脂的各种脂肪酸的钠盐混合物中提取的清洗剂。

Code: 13317
English Term: social analysis
Definition:
Chinese Term:社会分析
Translation:

Code: 7781
English Term: social behaviour
Definition: A person or community's general treatment, manner of conduct or action toward others as individuals or as members of variously identified groups.
Chinese Term:社会行为
Translation: 一个人或社会的一般待遇，行为方式或对个人或作为个人或各种确定团体的成员对他人的行为。

Code: 7784
English Term: social condition
Definition: An existing circumstance, situation or state affecting the life, welfare and relations of human beings in community.
Chinese Term:社会状况
Translation:现有的环境，情况或状态影响生活，福利和人类社会的关系。


Code: 7787
English Term: social cost
Definition: The price paid or the loss incurred to acquire, produce or maintain an objective or goal in a group, community or society.
Chinese Term:社会成本
Translation:为了一个群体，社区或社会获得，产生或保持的目标而付出的代价或招致的损失。

Code: 7790
English Term: social development
Definition: The state of nations and the hystorical processes of change experienced by them. The concept of development subsumes associated cultural and political changes as well as welfare measures which reflect distribution of goods, wealth and opportunities.
Chinese Term:社会发展
Translation:各国国家元首和他们经历的各种历史进程的改变。发展的概念归结于相关的文化和政治的变化以及福利措施，反映在商品，财富和机会的分配。

Code: 7791
English Term: social differentiation
Definition: A concept associated with evolutionary theories of history and with structural functionalism. Societies are seen as moving from the simple to the complex via a process of social change based on structural differentiation.
Chinese Term:社会分化
Translation: 与历史进化理论和结构功能相关的一个概念。社会被视为正在通过以结构分化为基础的从简单到复杂的社会改变过程。

Code: 7793
English Term: social dynamics
Definition: The pattern, change, development and driving forces of a human group, community or society.
Chinese Term:社会动态
Translation: 一个人类群体，社区或社会的模式，改革，发展和动力。


Code: 7795
English Term: social facility
Definition: Any structure designed, built or installed to provide space for living or interaction among persons in a community.
Chinese Term:社会设施
Translation:提供空间给社区的人交流或生活的任何结构设计，建造或装置。

Code: 13154
English Term: social framework
Definition: The underlying structure that connects and supports the various members and parts of a community or human organization.
Chinese Term:社会结构
Translation:连接并支持各成员和部分社区或人类组织的基本结构。

Code: 7796
English Term: social group
Definition: A collection of people who interact with one another and share a certain feeling of unity.
Chinese Term:社会团体
Translation:人互动，分享彼此的团结之感的集合。人们相互交流以及分享团体感受的一个集合。

Code: 7798
English Term: social indicator
Definition: Easily identified features of a society which can be measured, which vary over time, and are taken as revealing some underlying aspect of social reality. In general, the most commonly used indicators are derived from official statistics, and include unemployment figures, health and mortality data, and crime rates.
Chinese Term: 社会福利指标
Translation: 容易识别的，可以衡量的，随着时间的推移而有所不同，并作为揭示社会现实的一些基本方面的社会特征。一般来说，最常用的指标是来自官方的统计数字，包括失业数字，健康和死亡率数据，以及犯罪率。

Code: 10960
English Term: social inequality
Definition: Unequal rewards or opportunities for different individuals within a group or groups within a society. If equality is judged in terms of legal equality, equality of opportunity, or equality of outcome, then inequality is a constant feature of the human condition.
Chinese Term:社会不平等
Translation: 不等的奖励或集团内不同的个人或团体在社会上的机会。如果是在平等的法律平等，机会均等，或者是结果的平等来判断，那么不平等是人类状况的不变的特征。

Code: 7803
English Term: social medicine
Definition: Medicine as applied to treatment of diseases which occur in certain social groups.
Chinese Term:社会医学
Translation: 适用于治疗发生在特定社会群体中的疾病的医学。

Code: 7805
English Term: social movement
Definition: A organized effort by a significant number of people to change (or resist change in) some major aspect or aspects of society.
Chinese Term:社会运动
Translation:一个由相当多的人，改变（或抗拒改变）一些社会的主要方面或各方面的有组织的力量。

Code: 7807
English Term: social participation
Definition: Collective, civic action shared and performed by a significant number of the community or general population.
Chinese Term:社会参与
Translation: 集体，公民共同的行动和由社区或总人口大量进行的行动。

Code: 7809
English Term: social policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization, which seeks to ensure that all people have acceptable working or living conditions by providing social security, welfare, health care, insurance, fair employment practices, low cost housing or educational opportunities.
Chinese Term:社会政策
Translation: 一种通过了政府，企业或其他组织的行动方针，其目的是确保所有的人都可以接受社会提供的工作或生活保障，福利条件、医疗、保险、公平就业、低成本住房或教育机会。

Code: 7810
English Term: social problem
Definition: A generic term applied to the range of conditions and aberrant behaviours which are considered to be manifestations of social disorganization and to warrant changing via some means of social engineering. Typically, these problems include many forms of deviant behaviour (such as crime, juvenile delinquency, prostitution, mental illness, drug addiction, suicide) and of social conflict (ethnic tension, domestic violence, industrial strife, and so forth).
Chinese Term:社会问题
Translation: 一个适用于各种条件下和异常行为的通用术语，被认为是社会解体的表现，并保证通过社会工程的某种手段来证明变化。这些问题通常包括多种形式越轨行为（如犯罪、少年犯罪、卖淫、精神疾病、吸毒、自杀）和社会冲突（种族关系紧张、家庭暴力、工业冲突，等等）。

Code: 7811
English Term: social process
Definition: A continuous action, operation, or series of changes taking place in a definite manner and pertaining to the life, welfare, and relations of human beings in a community.
Chinese Term:社会过程
Translation: 一个连续的动作、操作或发生在确定行为中和有关的生活，福利发生的一系列变化，以及人类在社区中的关系。


Code: 13156
English Term: social protection
Definition: The monies and programs a society enacts through either public or private entities to provide economic security and general welfare for its members, often on account of old age, unemployment, health, disability or death of a spouse, parent or other benefactor.
Chinese Term:社会保护
Translation: 一个社会通过公共或私人实体颁布的款项和方案，提供其成员经济安全和公众福利，这些成员往往因年老、失业、医疗、残疾或配偶，父母或其它行善者的死亡。

Code: 10971
English Term: social psychology
Definition: Study of the effects of social structure on cognition and behavior, of processes of face-to-face interaction, and of the negotiation of social order.
Chinese Term:社会心理学
Translation:对社会结构在认知和行为方面的影响的研究，以面对面的互动过程，对社会秩序的谈判。

Code: 7813
English Term: social relief
Definition: Public assistance especially financial given to persons in special need or difficulty.
Chinese Term:社会救济
Translation: 公共援助，特别是在财务方面的有特殊需要或困难的人。


Code: 10972
English Term: social representation
Definition: A system of values, ideas and practices established to orient individuals in their community and culture and to provide them with naming, classification and communication codes.
Chinese Term:社会代表
Translation: 在他们的社区建立面向个人和文化的价值体系，想法和做法，并提供命名，分类和交流法规。

Code: 10557
English Term: social science
Definition: The study of society and of the relationship of individual members within society, including economics, history, political science, psychology, anthropology, and sociology.
Chinese Term:社会科学
Translation: 研究社会和个别成员在社会内部的关系，包括经济、历史、政治学、心理学、人类学和社会学。


Code: 7815
English Term: social security
Definition:
Chinese Term:社会保障，社会保险
Translation:

Code: 7816
English Term: social service
Definition: Welfare activities organized by the state or a local authority and carried out by trained personnel.
Chinese Term:社会服务
Translation:由国家或地方当局组织实施由受过训练的人员进行的公益活动。

Code: 7817
English Term: social structure
Definition: A term loosely applied to any recurring pattern of social behaviour; or, more specifically, to the ordered interrelationships between the different elements or a social system or society.
Chinese Term:社会结构
Translation: 基本适用于任何社会行为循环模式的术语，或者更具体地说，适用于区分不同的元素或一个社会制度或社会的有序的相互关系的术语。


Code: 7818
English Term: social survey
Definition: Data collections that employ both interviewing and sampling to produce quantitative data-sets, amenable to computer-based analysis.
Chinese Term:社会调查
Translation:同时采用访谈和抽样而产生的定量数据集的数据集合，适于计算机基础分析。

Code: 7819
English Term: social system
Definition: The concept of system appears throughout the social and natural sciences and has generated a body of literature of its own (general systems theory). A system is any pattern of relationships between elements, and is regarded as having emergent properties on its own over and above the properties of its elements.
Chinese Term:社会系统
Translation: 该系统的概念似乎存在于整个社会科学和自然科学，并产生了其自己的文明（一般系统论文艺团体）。一个系统是任何元素之间的关系模式，在元素的属性方面，被认为有意外的特征。

Code: 7821
English Term: social value
Definition: Regarding social values, distinctions are often drawn between values, which are strong, semi permanent, underlying, and sometimes inexplicit dispositions, and attitudes, which are shallow, weakly held, and highly variable views and opinions. Societies can usually tolerate highly diverse attitude, whereas they require some degree of homogeneity and consistency in the values held by people, providing a common fund of shared values which shape social and political consensus.
Chinese Term:社会价值
Translation: 关于社会价值，区别往往在固定的，半永久性的，潜在的价值之间，有时在含糊的，浅，弱，充满变数的看法和意见中。社团通常可以容忍的态度非常不同，而他们需要某种同质性和一致性，人们持有的价值度，提供了一个共同的价值观，形成社会和政治共识的公共的基础。

Code: 7822
English Term: social welfare
Definition: The prosperity, well-being or convenience of a community. It embraces the primary social interests of safety, order, morals, economic interest, and non material and political interests.
Chinese Term:社会福利
Translation: 一个社区的繁荣，幸福或便利。它包含了安全的首要社会利益、秩序、道德、经济利益和非物质和政治利益。

Code: 7804
English Term: social-minded behaviour
Definition:
Chinese Term: 社会意识的行为
Translation:

Code: 7823
English Term: society
Definition: Human group of people, more or less large and complex, associated for some common interest and characterized by distinctive hierarchical relationships.
Chinese Term:社会
Translation: 人类群体，或多或少庞大而复杂，与一些共同利益相关，以及有等级关系和独特的特点。

Code: 13337
English Term: socio-cultural group
Definition: A collection of people who interact and share a sense of unity on account of a common ethnic, ancestral, generational or regional identity.
Chinese Term:社会文化小组
Translation: 人们交流和分享一个共同的种族，血缘，世代或区域标识帐户的团结意识的集合。

Code: 7825
English Term: socioeconomic aspect of human settlements
Definition:
Chinese Term: 社会经济方面的人类住区
Translation:

Code: 7826
English Term: socioeconomic factor
Definition: An essential element in a society's make-up, organization or behavior that combines financial dimensions with inter-personal or inter-group dynamics.
Chinese Term: 社会经济因素
Translation: 一个社会的组成，组织或行为的基本要素，它结合了人际或群体间的财务方面。

Code: 7827
English Term: socioeconomic impact of biotechnologies
Definition: Biotechnology is the application of biological and technical solutions to problems, and often refers to the industrial use of microorganisms (perhaps genetically altered) to perform chemical processing, for example of waste or water, or to manufacture hormones or enzymes for medicinal and commercial purposes. Biotechnology offers great potential to increase farm production and food processing efficiency, to lower food costs, to enhance food quality and safety and to increase international competitiveness.
Chinese Term: 生物技术的社会经济影响
Translation: 生物技术是应用生物学和技术的办法以解决问题，往往指的是用微生物工业（也许是转基因）进行的废弃物或水的化学处理，或制造荷尔蒙或酵素医药作为商业用途。生物技术提供了巨大的潜力，增加农业生产和粮食加工效率，降低粮食成本，提高食品质量和安全，并提高国际竞争力。

Code: 10977
English Term: socioeconomics
Definition: Economic and social structure of communities, tax rates, characteristic types of development.
Chinese Term:社会经济
Translation: 社区的经济和社会结构、税率、发展的特色类型。


Code: 10767
English Term: socioeducational activity
Definition: Instruction or events designed to offer learning or cultural experiences to populations without access to traditional educational institutions due to social or economic barriers.
Chinese Term:社会教育活动
Translation: 由于社会或经济障碍，设计教学或活动而不是传统教育以给人们提供学习或文化经验。

Code: 7830
English Term: sociological survey
Definition: Research on social questions or problems, especially focusing on cultural and environmental factors.
Chinese Term: 社会调查
Translation: 研究社会问题，特别是以文化和环境因素为重点。

Code: 7831
English Term: sociology
Definition: The study of the development, organization, functioning and classification of human societies.
Chinese Term:社会学
Translation: 人类社会的发展，组织，运作和分类的研究。

Code: 7832
English Term: sociopolitical aspect
Definition: Any part, feature or quality of society that combines governmental dimensions with inter-personal or inter-group dynamics.
Chinese Term: 社会政治方面
Translation: 社会的特点或者功能的一部分，它动态地结合了人际或群体间的政府层面。

Code: 7839
English Term: softening
Definition: Reduction of the hardness of water by removing hardness-forming ions (chiefly calcium and magnesium) by precipitation or ion exchange, or sequestering them as by combining them with substances such as certain phosphates, that form soluble but non-ionized salts.
Chinese Term:软化
Translation:通过消除形成硬度的（主要是钙和镁）离子或离子交换，或除掉它们所结合的物质如某些可溶但非电离盐类如磷酸盐，以减少水的硬度。

Code: 7840
English Term: softening agent
Definition: 1) A substance added to another substance to increase its softness, pliability, or plasticity. &#10;2) A substance, such as a zeolite, for softening water.
Chinese Term: 柔软剂
Translation: 1）一种物质添加到另一种物质，以增加其柔软性、柔韧性或可塑性。&#10;2）一种物质，如沸石，用于水的软化。

Code: 7842
English Term: software
Definition: Software is the general term used to describe all of the various programs that may be used on a computer system. Software can be divided into four main categories: systems software, development software, user interface software, applications software.
Chinese Term: 软件
Translation: 软件是一般的术语，用来描述各种可能在计算机系统中使用的各种方案。软件可分为四大类：系统软件、开发软件、用户界面软件和应用软件。

Code: 14894
English Term: software development
Definition:
Chinese Term:软件开发
Translation:

Code: 7843
English Term: soil
Definition: The top layer of the land surface of the earth that is composed of disintegrated rock particles, humus, water and air.
Chinese Term: 土壤
Translation: 地球表面的最外层  由解体岩石颗粒、腐殖质、水和空气组成。

Code: 7844
English Term: soil acidification
Definition: A naturally occurring process in humid climates that has long been the subject of research, whose findings suggest acid precipitation effects. The generally accepted impact of soil acidification on the productivity of terrestrial plants is summarised as follows: as soil becomes more acidic the basic cations (Ca, Mg) on the soil exchange are replaced by hydrogen ions or solubilized metals. The basic cation, now in solution, can be leached through the soil. As time progresses the soil becomes less fertile and more acidic. Resultant decreases in soil pH cause reduced, less-active population of soil microorganisms, which in turn slow decomposition of plant residues and cycling of essential plant nutrients.
Chinese Term: 土壤酸化
Translation: 这长期以来一直是研究的课题，研究结果表明酸雨影响潮湿的气候，是个自然发生的过程。土壤的酸化对陆地植物生产力的影响总结如下：由于土壤变得更酸，土壤中基本的阳离子（钙，镁）交换是由氢离子或被溶解的金属离子基本取代。溶解中的基本阳离子，可以通过土壤被过滤，随着时间的推移变得越来越贫瘠的土壤更酸。土壤pH值下降的结果，欠活跃的土壤微生物，从而对植物残体和必要的植物养分循环的重要分解更缓慢。

Code: 7845
English Term: soil air
Definition: The air and other gases in spaces in the soil; specifically that which is found within the zone of aeration. Also known as soil atmosphere.
Chinese Term: 土壤空气
Translation: 在土壤中的空气和其他气体;特别是那些在透气层发现的气体。也称为土壤的大气。

Code: 7846
English Term: soil analysis
Definition: The use of rapid chemical analyses to determine the fertility status of a soil. It is used to identify those nutrients or substances that are present in either insufficient or excessive quantities for optimum plant growth. Analyses are also used to monitor increases or decreases in soil fertility over time.
Chinese Term: 土壤分析
Translation: 快速化学分析来确定土壤肥力状况。它是用来识别植物最佳生长时那些营养物质目前不足或过量。分析还用于监测随着时间的推移土壤肥力的增减。

Code: 7847
English Term: soil biology
Definition: The study of the living organisms, mainly microorganisms and microinvertebrates which live within the soil, and which are largely responsible for the decomposition processes vital to soil fertility.
Chinese Term:土壤生物学
Translation: 生物体的研究，该生物体主要是指生活在土壤内的微生物和无脊椎动物，主要研究土壤分解，对土壤肥沃程度起至关重要的作用。

Code: 7848
English Term: soil capability
Definition: The suitability of soils for various uses, e.g. sustained production of cultivated crops, pasture plants, etc., depending on depth, texture, kinds of minerals, salinity, kinds of salts, acidity, etc.
Chinese Term: 土壤利用潜力
Translation:土壤的各种用途如：持续生产栽培作物，草原植物等的适宜性，取决于深度、纹理、矿物质、盐度、种盐和酸度等

Code: 7849
English Term: soil chemistry
Definition: The study of the inorganic and organic components of the soil and its life cycles.
Chinese Term:土壤化学
Translation: 对土壤和其生命周期的无机和有机成分的研究。

Code: 7850
English Term: soil compaction
Definition: An increase in bulk density (mass per unit volume) and a decrease in soil porosity resulting from applied loads, vibration, or pressure. More compacted soils (or other materials) can support greater loads (load-bearing capacity). Bulk density can be increased by controlling the moisture content, compaction forces and treatment procedures, as well as by manipulating the type of material being compacted.
Chinese Term:土壤压实
Translation: 散装密度（单位体积的质量）增加，土壤应用载荷、振动或压力造成的孔隙率下降。更多压实土壤（或其他材料）可以支持更大的负载（承载能力）。散装密度可提高是通过水分含量控制，压力和处理程序，以及通过操纵材料的类型被压缩。

Code: 7851
English Term: soil condition
Definition: Description of the character of the surface of the ground at the time of observation, especially in relation to the influence of rain and snow.
Chinese Term:土壤条件
Translation: 在观测时对地表面特征的描述，尤其是与水和雪的影响有关。

Code: 7852
English Term: soil conservation
Definition: Management of soil to prevent or reduce soil erosion and depletion by wind and water. Preservation of soil against deterioration and loss by using it within its capabilities; application of conservation practices needed for its protection and improvement.
Chinese Term:水土保持
Translation: 对土壤的管理，以防止或减少风和水对土壤的侵蚀和耗竭。实施一些保护促使以尽力阻止退化和损失以保存土壤，改善和维持土壤。

Code: 7853
English Term: soil conservation legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to protect and prevent the loss of an area's surface layer of decomposed rock and organic material, valued for its nutrients and ability to support life.
Chinese Term:土壤保护立法
Translation: 一个具有约束力的规则或由政府指定的保护和防止某一地区的岩石和有机物质分解损失的机构，这些物质对它的营养物质和维持生命的能力有着重要的价值。

Code: 7855
English Term: soil damage
Definition: Soil impaired as a consequence of human activity. A study financed by UNEP, reporting in 1992, found that about 10,5% of the world's vegetative surface had been seriously damaged by human activity since 1945. The study found that much of the damage had been masked by a general rise in global agricultural productivity resulting from expanded irrigation, better plant varieties, and greater use of production inputs, such as fertilizers and pesticides. More than 1/3 of the damaged land was in Asia, almost 1/3 in Africa, and 1/4 in Central America. Some land had been damaged beyond restoration. The greatest sources of soil degradation were overgrazing, unsuitable agricultural practices, and deforestation.
Chinese Term:土壤损失
Translation: 土壤损害是人类活动的结果。由环境规划署资助的一项研究，在1992年的报告发现，自1945年以来，世界植被约有10.5%是由于人类的活动而受到严重破坏。这项研究发现，大部分的破坏被扩大灌溉，更好的植物品种以及更大的生产投入，如使用化肥和农药等，所形成的全球农业生产率提高所掩饰。亚洲的土地破坏超过1/3，非洲近1/3，中美洲1/4。一些土壤损坏已经无法修复，土壤退化的最大来源是过度放牧，不适当的农业实践和毁林。


Code: 7856
English Term: soil decontamination
Definition: Technologies employed in the removal of PCBs, PAH, pesticides and, more generally, of organic compounds by physical, chemical or biological treatments.
Chinese Term:土壤净化
Translation:用于去除多氯联苯、多环芳烃和农药的技术，更普遍的是通过物理、化学或生物治疗去除有机化合物。

Code: 7857
English Term: soil degradation
Definition: Soil may deteriorate either by physical movement of soil particles from a given site or by depletion of the water-soluble elements in the soil which contribute to the nourishment of crop, plants, grasses, trees, and other economically usable vegetation. The physical movement generally is referred to as erosion. Wind, water, glacial ice, animals and tools in use may be agents of erosion.
Chinese Term:土壤退化
Translation: 由于土壤颗粒从某一个地点的移动，或土壤中的有助于作物、植物、草、树木、植被和其它经济实用作物的营养水溶性成分的耗竭，土壤可能会遭到破坏。这种物理运动一般被称为侵蚀，风、水、冰川、动物和使用的工具可能是侵蚀剂。

Code: 7858
English Term: soil erosion
Definition: Detachment and movement of topsoil or soil material from the upper part of the profile, by the action of wind or running water, especially as a result of changes brought about by human activity, such as unsuitable or mismanaged agriculture.
Chinese Term:土壤侵蚀
Translation: 由于风或流水的作用，尤其是人类活动，如不合适的或者管理不当的农业所带来的变化，使得层或坡面上的土壤材料分离或移动。

Code: 7861
English Term: soil fertilisation
Definition: The application of any organic or inorganic material of natural or synthetic origins to a soil to supply one or more elements essential to the growth of plants.
Chinese Term:土壤施肥
Translation: 为土壤提供一个或多个元素的天然或合成的有机或无机物质的起源，对植物的生长是必不可少的。

Code: 7860
English Term: soil fertility
Definition: The status of a soil with respect to the amount and availability to plants of elements necessary for plant growth.
Chinese Term:土壤肥力
Translation:与植物生长必要的元素的数量和可用性有关的土壤状况。

Code: 7862
English Term: soil formation
Definition: The combination of natural processes by which soils are formed. It is also known as pedogenesis. The most important soil-forming factors are parent material, terrain, climate, aspect, vegetation cover, microorganisms in the soil and the age of the land surface. Some pedologists would add to this list the influence of human activities. All the factors exhibit varying degrees of interrelationship and some are more important than others, with climate often being singled out as the most important.
Chinese Term:土壤的形成
Translation:土壤自然形成过程的结合。它也被称为成土。最重要的土壤形成因素是母质、地形、气候、坡向、植被和土壤中的微生物以及地表的年龄。有些行为也加入到这些人类活动的影响列表中。所有的因素表现出不同程度的相关性，且有些因素比其它因素更重要，气候通常被认为是最重要的。

Code: 3524
English Term: soil function
Definition: The main soil function is participation in the material transformation and migrating processes occurring in the natural environment on which the functioning of ecosystems depends. The most active participants in the occurring processes are microorganisms and invertebrates, whose activity, different variety, complex structure, and abundance accurately reflect the soil type and its characteristics: so they are important indicators of ecological stability. The variety of soil organisms determine its self-regulatory and self-cleaning capacity.
Chinese Term:土壤功能
Translation: 土壤主要功能是参与发生在生态系统的功能所依赖的自然环境的物质转化和迁移过程。在发生过程中最积极的参与者是微生物和无脊椎动物，它们的活动方式、品种各异，具有复杂的结构，且大量存在，这些特性准确地反映土壤类型及其特点：是它们的生态稳定的重要指标。土壤生物的多样性决定了它的自我管理和自我清洁能力。

Code: 7863
English Term: soil improvement
Definition: Process of protecting the soil from excessive erosion and making soil more fertile and productive.
Chinese Term:土壤改良
Translation:保护土壤使其免遭过度侵蚀，使土壤更加肥沃，更加具有生产效率的过程。

Code: 7866
English Term: soil layer
Definition: Distinctive successive layers of soil produced by internal redistribution processes. Conventionally the layers have been divided into A, B and C horizons. The A horizon is the upper layer, containing humus and is leached and/or eluviated of many minerals. The B horizon forms a zone of deposition and is enriched with clay minerals and iron/aluminium oxides from the A layer. The C layer is the parent material for the present soil and may be partially weathered rock, transported glacial or alluvial material or an earlier soil.
Chinese Term:土层
Translation:由内部的再分配过程所产生的独特的连续层土壤。传统的土壤层被分为A，B，C三层。A层是最上层，含有腐殖质，被浸出和/或多种矿物质淋溶。B层形成沉淀区，富含粘土矿物和来自A层的铁/铝氧化物。C层是当前土壤的母质，部分可能是风化岩，运输冰川或冲积土材料或者是更早的土壤。

Code: 11224
English Term: soil leaching
Definition: The removal of water or any soluble constituents from the soil. Leaching often occurs with soil constituents such as nitrate fertilizers with the result that nitrates end up in potable waters.
Chinese Term:土壤浸出
Translation: 从土壤中去除水或水溶性成分。经常去除如硝态氮肥等土壤成分，使得硝酸盐在食用水中消失。

Code: 7867
English Term: soil loading
Definition: In soil mechanics and civil engineering the term is used to denote the increased weight brought to bear on the ground surface.
Chinese Term: 土壤负荷
Translation: 在土壤力学和土木工程术语中是用来表示所承受的地面上重量的增加。

Code: 7868
English Term: soil map
Definition: A two-dimensional representation that shows the areal extent or the distribution of soils in relation to other features of the land surface.
Chinese Term:土壤图
Translation:用二维表示的图纸，用以显示区域范围或有关土地面积的其它功能的土壤分布。

Code: 7871
English Term: soil mechanics
Definition: The study of the physical properties of soil, especially those properties that affect its ability to bear weight such as water content, density, strength, etc.
Chinese Term: 土壤力学
Translation: 对土壤物理性质的研究，特别是那些影响其承受能力的属性，如含水量、密度、强度等。

Code: 7873
English Term: soil mineralogy
Definition: Study of the formation, occurrence, properties, composition, and classification of the minerals present in the soil.
Chinese Term: 土壤矿物学
Translation: 对目前土壤中矿物质的形成、发生、性质和组成的研究。

Code: 7874
English Term: soil moisture
Definition: 1) Water stored in soils.&#10; 2) One of the most important elements involved in pedological processes and plant growth. There are three basic forms: a) water adhering in thin films by molecular attraction to the surface of soil particles and not available for plants is termed hygroscopic water. b) Water forming thicker films and occupying the smaller pore spaces is termed capillary water. Since it is held against the force of gravity it is permanently available for plant growth and it is this type of soil water which contains plant nutrients in solution. c) Water in excess of hygroscopic and capillary water is termed gravitational water, which is of a transitory nature because it flows away under the influence of gravity. When the excess has drained away the amount of water retained in the soil is termed its field capacity, when some of its pore spaces are still free of water.
Chinese Term:
Translation:1）土壤中的储水。&#10;2）一个在土壤学和植物生长过程中所涉及的最重要因素。有三种基本形式：a）黏附在薄膜上的水被分子吸附到土壤颗粒的表面。b)水形成较厚的薄膜占据更小空间被称为毛细管孔隙水。它是与重力作用相反，永恒地为植物生长起作用，这种类型的土壤水分含有溶解的植物营养素。 c)吸湿和毛细管中多余的水被称为重力水，是一个过度性质的，因为它的流动受到了重力的影响。当过量外流的水耗尽了土壤中保持的水，被称为它的领域能力，当空隙中仍然是自由的水。

Code: 7875
English Term: soil moisture regime
Definition: The water regime of the soil is determined by the physical properties and arrangement of the soil particles. The pores in a soil determine its water-retention characteristics. When all the pores are full of water, the soil is said to be saturated.
Chinese Term: 土壤水分状况
Translation: 土壤的水分状况是由物理特性和土壤颗粒的排列决定的。土壤的毛孔确定其保水特性。当所有的毛孔都装满水，土壤被认为是饱和的。

Code: 7876
English Term: soil organism
Definition: Organisms which live in the soil.
Chinese Term: 土壤有机质
Translation:生活在土壤中的有机物。

Code: 7878
English Term: soil pollutant
Definition: Solid, liquid and gaseous substances that detrimentally alter the natural condition of the soil.
Chinese Term: 土壤污染物
Translation:改变土壤的自然状况的，有害的固态、液态和气态物质。

Code: 7880
English Term: soil pollution
Definition: Modifications of soil features or, more generally, of its chemical and biological balance, caused by the discharge of polluting substances.
Chinese Term:土壤污染
Translation: 土壤特性，或更普遍地是由污染物质的排放造成的它的化学或生物平衡性的改变。

Code: 7881
English Term: soil process
Definition: The major processes in soils are gains, losses, transfers, and transformations of organic matter, soluble salts, carbonates, silicate clay minerals, sesquioxides, and silica. Gains consist normally of additions of organic matter, and of oxygen and water through oxidation and hydration, but in some sites slow continuous additions of new mineral materials take place at the surface or soluble materials are deposited from groundwater. Losses are chiefly of materials dissolved or suspended in water percolating through the profile or running off the surface.
Chinese Term: 土壤过程
Translation: 土壤中的主要流程是收益，损失，和有机质，可溶性盐，碳酸盐，硅酸盐粘土矿物，倍半氧化物和二氧化硅的转换。收益通常包括有机物质，以及通过氧化和光和作用形成的氧气和水的增加，但在有些场合新的矿物质的不断增加发生在放置于地下水中的可溶性物质的表面。亏损主要是指原料的溶解或通悬浮在侧面或流动的表面。

Code: 7882
English Term: soil profile
Definition: A vertical section of a soil, showing horizons and parent material.
Chinese Term: 土壤剖面
Translation: 土壤垂直剖面，显示界限和原材料。

Code: 7884
English Term: soil quality
Definition: All current positive or negative properties with regard to soil utilization and soil functions.
Chinese Term:土壤质量
Translation: 目前所有的对于土地利用和土壤功能的积极或消极的性能。


Code: 7886
English Term: soil resource
Definition:
Chinese Term:土壤资源
Translation:

Code: 7889
English Term: soil salination
Definition: The accumulation of soluble mineral salts near the surface of soil, usually caused by the capillary flow of water from saline ground water. Where the rate of surface evaporation is high, irrigation can exacerbate the problem by moistening the soil and causing water to be drawn from deeper levels as water evaporates from the surface. The evaporation of pure water leaves the salts behind, allowing them to accumulate, and they can reach concentrations that are toxic to plants, thus sterilizing the land.
Chinese Term: 土壤盐碱化
Translation:土壤表面的可溶天然盐的积累，通常是由地下水盐碱水的毛细流引起的。表面蒸发速度快，由于土壤滋润可以得出的水从表面更深层次蒸发，灌溉会加剧这一问题。 纯净水蒸发后留下的盐的积累达到一定浓度就对植物具有毒性，因此破坏土壤。

Code: 11233
English Term: soil salinity
Definition: Measurement of the quantity of mineral salts found in a soil. Many semi-arid and arid areas are naturally salty. By definition they are areas of substantial water deficit where evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation. Thus, whereas in humid areas there is sufficient water to percolate through the soil and to leach soluble materials from the soil and the rocks into the rivers and hence into the sea, in deserts this is not the case. Salts therefore tend to accumulate.
Chinese Term: 土壤含盐量
Translation:土壤中矿物盐量的测量。许多半干旱和干旱地区是天然含盐的。根据定义，这是一些水分蒸发量超过降水量的地区。因此，即使在潮湿地区有足够的水渗入土壤，滤出土壤中的可溶解物质和石块进入河流入海，而在沙漠情况并非如此，因此盐会积累。

Code: 7890
English Term: soil science
Definition: The study of the properties, occurrence, and management of soil as a natural resource. Generally it includes the chemistry, microbiology, physics, morphology, and mineralogy of soils, as well as their genesis and classification.
Chinese Term: 土壤学
Translation:对土壤作为自然资源的特性，发生率，管理的研究。一般来说，包括化学、微生物学、物理学、形态学和土壤矿物质学，以及其成因和分类。

Code: 7892
English Term: soil settling
Definition: Compaction involves the close-packing of the individual grains mainly by the elimination of pore-space and expulsion of entrapped water; this is normally brought about by the weight of the overlying sediments.
Chinese Term: 土壤沉积
Translation:涉及到个人粮食的紧密包装，主要由消除空隙空间和驱除水质所造成；这通常是由上覆的沉淀物的重力所引起的。

Code: 7894
English Term: soil stabilisation
Definition: Chemical or mechanical treatment designed to increase or maintain the stability of a soil mass or otherwise to improve its engineering properties, as by increasing its shear strength, reducing its compressibility, or decreasing its tendency to absorb water. Stabilization methods include physical compaction and treatment with cement, lime, and bitumen.
Chinese Term:土壤稳定
Translation:化学和机械的治疗计划来增加或维持大量土壤的稳定，除此之外改善它的工程特性，通过增加切变强度，降低压缩率，或降低吸收水的趋势。稳定方法包括物理压缩和水泥，石灰处理，沥青等。

Code: 12717
English Term: soil stability
Definition: Soil stability depends on its shear strength, its compressibility and its tendency to absorb water. Stabilization methods include physical compaction and treatment with cement, lime, and bitumen.
Chinese Term: 土壤稳定
Translation:土壤稳定取决与它的剪切强度、压缩性以及其吸收水的趋势。稳定方法包括物理压实和水泥、石灰处理、沥青等。

Code: 7895
English Term: soil structure
Definition: The combination or aggregation of primary soil particles into aggregates or clusters, which are separated from adjoining peds by surfaces of weakness. Soil structure is classified on the basis of size, shape, and distinctness into classes, types, and grades.
Chinese Term: 土壤结构
Translation:原始土壤颗粒的聚集总数，由于表面薄弱，它们被从邻近的土壤自然结构体中分离。土壤结构基于大小，形状以及不同而被分成类别，类型和等级。

Code: 7896
English Term: soil subsidence
Definition: A sinking down of a part of the earth's crust, generally due to underground excavations.
Chinese Term: 土壤沉陷
Translation:地球的地壳部分下沉，一般归因于底下挖掘。

Code: 7897
English Term: soil surface sealing
Definition: Any activity or process in which ground surface areas are packed or plugged to prevent percolation or the passage of fluids.
Chinese Term: 土壤表面密封
Translation:地表区域的拥挤或拥塞以防止液体的过滤或流动的活动或过程。

Code: 7898
English Term: soil texture
Definition: 1) Refers to the relative proportions of the various size groups (sand, silt and clay) of the individual soil grains in a mass of soil. &#10;2) Classification of soil by the proportion and graduations of the three size groups of soil grains, i.e., sand, silt and clay, present in the soil.
Chinese Term: 土壤质地
Translation: 1）指大量土壤中的个体土壤的各大小团体（沙，淤泥和粘土）的相对比例。&#10;2）土壤以土壤颗粒的大小和比例按等级分为三类，如土壤中现有的沙、淤泥和粘土等。

Code: 7899
English Term: soil type
Definition: A phase or subdivision of a soil series based primarily on texture of the surface soil to a depth at least equal to plow depth (about 15 cm).
Chinese Term: 土壤类型
Translation:，连续的主要基于土壤表面的质地的一阶段或一部分土壤，深度至少相当于犁深度（约15厘米）。

Code: 7900
English Term: soil use
Definition: Functional utilization of soil for agriculture, industry, or residential building purposes.
Chinese Term: 土壤使用
Translation:土壤在农业、工业、住宅或建筑用地方面的功能用途。

Code: 4684
English Term: soil use regime
Definition: Type of management and utilization of the soil.
Chinese Term: 土地使用制度
Translation:土壤的管理和利用形式。

Code: 7902
English Term: soil water
Definition: water stored in soils.
Chinese Term: 土壤水分
Translation:储藏在土壤中的水分。

Code: 7904
English Term: solar cell
Definition: A device for converting sunlight into electrical power using a semiconductor sensitive to the photovoltaic effect. Solar cells are used on space satellites to power electronic equipment, and as their price falls they may come to be used to provide energy on the Earth.
Chinese Term: 太阳能电池
Translation:一个使用半导体敏感器件产生光伏效应而使阳光转换成电力的装置。太阳能电池用于空间卫星电力电子设备，随着它们的价格下降，它们可能会被用来提供地球上所需的能量。

Code: 7905
English Term: solar collector
Definition: Device which converts the energy from light into electricity. The collector system contains a concentrator and a receiver. The concentrator redirects and focuses sunlight on the receiver by using mirrors or lenses, and the receiver absorbs solar radiation and converts it to heat.
Chinese Term: 太阳能集热器
Translation:将光的能量转换为电能的装置。该收集系统包含一个集中器和一个接收器。集中器使用镜子和透镜定向和集中阳光，接收器吸收太阳辐射，并将其转换为热能。


Code: 7906
English Term: solar energy
Definition: The energy transmitted from the sun in the form of electromagnetic radiation. The most successful examples of energy extraction from the sun are so far solar cells used in satellites and solar collectors used to heat water.
Chinese Term: 太阳能
Translation:由太阳以电磁辐射的形式转换形成的能量。能源开采最成功的例子是来自太阳的太阳能电池，至今在卫星和用于加热水的太阳能集热器使用。

Code: 7907
English Term: solar energy technology
Definition: Solar energy can be converted to useful work or heat by using a collector to absorb solar radiation, allowing much of the sun's radiant energy to be converted to heat. This heat can be used directly in residential, industrial, and agricultural operations; converted to mechanical or electrical power; or applied in chemical reactions for production of fuels and chemicals.
Chinese Term:太阳能技术
Translation:太阳能可以通过使用一个热收集器吸收太阳辐射，允许太阳的辐射能量大大转换为热能而被转换成有用功或热量。这种热量可直接用于住宅、工业、农业经营；可以转化为机械或电力，或用于生产燃料和化学行业。


Code: 7908
English Term: solar heating
Definition: A domestic or industrial heating system that makes direct use of solar energy. The simplest form consists of a collector through which a fluid is pumped. The circuit also contains some form of heat storage tank and an alternative energy source to provide energy when the sun is not shining. The collector usually consists of a black surface through which water is piped, the black surface being enclosed behind glass sheets to make use of the greenhouse effect.
Chinese Term: 太阳能采暖
Translation:直接使用太阳能的家庭或工业加热系统。最简单的形式包括通过流体泵收集。该电路还包含了一些热储藏罐的形式和当太阳不发光时用于提供能量的备用能源。收集器通常由黑色表面的水通过管道组成，黑色表面附在玻璃板上产生温室效应。


Code: 7910
English Term: solar power station
Definition: Plant where energy is generated using radiation from the sun.
Chinese Term: 太阳能发电站
Translation:使用太阳的辐射产生能源的地点。

Code: 7912
English Term: solar radiation
Definition: The electromagnetic radiation and particles emitted by the sun.
Chinese Term: 太阳辐射
Translation: 电磁辐射和太阳发射的粒子。

Code: 7918
English Term: solid matter
Definition: A crystalline material, that is, one in which the constituent atoms are arranged in a three-dimensional lattice, periodic in three independent directions.
Chinese Term: 固体物质
Translation:原子呈一个三维晶格，在三个独立的方向组成的晶体材料，


Code: 11692
English Term: solid particle
Definition: Any tiny or very small mass of material that has a definite volume and shape and resists forces that would alter its volume or shape.
Chinese Term: 固体颗粒
Translation:有一定体积，形状和抵抗力的微小或非常小的材料，将改变它的体积或形状。


Code: 7919
English Term: solid state
Definition: The physical state of matter in which the constituent molecules, atoms, or ions have no translatory motion although they vibrate about the fixed positions that they occupy in a crystal lattice.
Chinese Term: 固态
Translation:由没有平移的规则的分子、原子或离子组成的物理状态的物质，虽然没有对他们震动固定阵地，但他们占据了晶体点阵。


Code: 7920
English Term: solid waste
Definition: Discarded solid materials. Includes agricultural waste, mining waste, industrial waste and municipal waste.
Chinese Term: 固体废料
Translation: 废弃的固体材料。包括农业废弃物，矿山废弃物，工业废弃物和城市垃圾。

Code: 7921
English Term: solid waste disposal
Definition: The orderly discarding, release, collection, treatment or salvaging of unwanted or useless non-liquid, non-soluble refuse.
Chinese Term: 固体废物处置
Translation: 有序地丢弃、发布、收集、处理有害或无用的非液体，非溶垃圾。


Code: 7923
English Term: solubility
Definition: The ability of a substance to form a solution with another substance.
Chinese Term: 可溶性
Translation: 一种物质与其他物质形成溶解的能力。


Code: 7925
English Term: solvent
Definition: Substance, generally a liquid, capable of dissolving another substance.
Chinese Term: 溶剂
Translation:通常是可溶解另一种物质的液体物质。

Code: 7926
English Term: solvent recovery
Definition: Solvent recovery is a widely practised form of recycling where spent solvents are distilled and reused. However, the cheaper solvents are often incinerated or dumped in hazardous waste landfill sites.
Chinese Term: 溶剂回收
Translation: 溶剂回收是蒸馏或再生溶剂的广泛采用的形式。然而，更便宜的溶剂通常是在危险废物焚烧或丢弃的堆积区。

Code: 7927
English Term: songbird
Definition: Any passerine bird of the suborder Oscines, having highly developed vocal organs and, in most, a music call.
Chinese Term: 鸣禽
Translation: 具有高度发达的发声器官的一种亚目鸣禽，大多是悦耳的叫声。


Code: 7928
English Term: sonic boom
Definition: A noise caused by a shock wave that emanates from an aircraft or other object traveling at or above sonic velocity.
Chinese Term: 爆音
Translation: 由冲击波从飞机或其他高于声速行的物体而产生的噪音。

Code: 7929
English Term: soot
Definition: Impure black carbon with oily compounds obtained from the incomplete combustion of resinous materials, oils, wood, or coal.
Chinese Term: 煤烟
Translation: 从不完全燃烧树脂材料、油、木材或煤炭中获得的含有油脂化合物的不纯黑碳。

Code: 7930
English Term: sorption
Definition: The taking up, usually, of a liquid or gas into the body of another material (the absorbent). Thus, for instance, an air pollutant may be removed by absorption in a suitable solvent.
Chinese Term: 吸附
Translation:液体或气体进入另一种物质（吸附剂）。例如，空气中的污染物通过被适当的溶剂吸收可能会被移除。

Code: 14098
English Term: sorting at source
Definition: The classification and separation of solid waste, according to type, at the location where it is generated.
Chinese Term: 按源分类
Translation:固体废气物在它所产生的位置根据类型分类和分离。

Code: 7933
English Term: sound
Definition: Auditory sensation produced by the oscillations, stress, pressure, particle displacement, and particle velocity in a medium with internal forces; pressure variation that the human ear can detect.
Chinese Term: 声音
Translation:通过媒介在内力的作用下，由震动、压力、压强、颗粒移置和质点速度所产生的听觉的震荡，人耳可检测到的压力的变化。


Code: 7936
English Term: sound emission
Definition: Diffusion into the environment of a sound emitted from a given source.
Chinese Term: 声发射
Translation:从指定环境发出的声音:扩散到的另外的环境。

Code: 7937
English Term: sound immission
Definition: The introduction in the environment of noise deriving from various sources that can be grouped in: transportation activities, industrial activities and daily normal activities.
Chinese Term: 声音排入
Translation:在噪音环境中各种噪音源的引入，可以分为：交通运输活动，工业活动和日常生活的正常活动。


Code: 4371
English Term: sound insulation material
Definition: Material used to reduce the transmission of sound to or from a body, device, room, etc.
Chinese Term: 隔音材料
Translation:用于降低声音从音源到特定装置、设备和房间等的传输的材料。

Code: 7938
English Term: sound level
Definition: The sound pressure level (in decibels) at a point in a sound field, averaged over the audible frequency range and over a time interval.
Chinese Term: 音量
Translation: 声压大小（分贝）在声场上的一个点，平均发声频率范围和时间间隔超过1。

Code: 7939
English Term: sound measurement
Definition: Because of the large variations in sound magnitudes, and because the human hearing sensation seems to vary in a logarithmic way, logarithms are used in measurement of sound. The sound pressure level is given in decibels (dB).
Chinese Term: 声音测量
Translation: 由于声音的变化幅度大，且人耳的感觉似乎是以对数的方式改变,对数被用来测量声音，声压大小以分贝的方式给出。

Code: 7942
English Term: sound propagation
Definition: The travelling of acoustic waves in the atmosphere with a speed independent of their amplitude. The speed only depends on the acoustic medium and is proportional to the square route of the absolute temperature for any given medium.
Chinese Term: 声传播
Translation: 大气中以一定速度传输的声波与它的振幅无关。速度只取决于声中介，与任何介质的绝对温度的平方路线成正比。

Code: 7945
English Term: sound transmission
Definition: Passage of a sound wave through a medium or series of media.
Chinese Term: 声音传播
Translation: 通过媒介或系列媒体传递的声波。

Code: 7941
English Term: soundproofing
Definition: Reducing or eliminating reverberation in a room by placing sound-absorbing materials on the walls and ceiling.
Chinese Term: 隔音
Translation: 通过放置吸音的墙壁和天花板材料减少或消除房间的回响。

Code: 6474
English Term: source of pollution
Definition: The place, places or areas from where a pollutant is released into the atmosphere or water, or where noise is generated. A source can be classified as point source, i.e. a large individual generator of pollution, an area source, or a line source, e.g. vehicle emissions and noise.
Chinese Term:污染源
Translation: 污染物被释放到大气或水，或发出噪音的地方，地点或者区域。源头被列为点声源，即一个产生污染的大个体，一个区域源，或一个线源，例如，汽车尾气和噪音。


Code: 7947
English Term: South America
Definition: A continent in the southern part of the western hemisphere, astride the equator and the Tropic of Capricorn, bordered by the Caribbean Sea to the north and between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, connected to North America by the Isthmus of Panama, and divided into twelve countries: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Ecuador, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay and Venezuela.
Chinese Term: 南美洲
Translation: 一个在西半球的南部非洲大陆，横跨赤道与南回归线，与加勒比海的北部接壤，在大西洋和太平洋的中间，由巴拿马地峡连接到北美，分为12个国家：阿根廷，玻利维亚，巴西，智利，哥伦比亚，厄瓜多尔，圭亚那，巴拉圭，秘鲁，苏里南，乌拉圭和委内瑞拉。

Code: 7948
English Term: South Atlantic Ocean
Definition: An ocean south of the equator between the eastern coast of South America and the western coast of Africa that extends southward to the Antarctic continent, including the Drake Passage, South Sandwich Islands and Falkand Islands.
Chinese Term: 南大西洋
Translation:位于赤道以南，南美洲的东海岸和非洲的西海岸之间的一个海。延伸到南极大陆，包括德雷克海峡，南桑威奇群岛和福克兰群岛。


Code: 7952
English Term: South Pacific Ocean
Definition: An ocean south of the equator between Southeast Asia and Australia in the Eastern hemisphere and South America in the Western hemisphere, extending southward to the Antarctic region, including the Tasman and Coral seas and numerous islands, such as Galapagos, Solomon, Easter, Samoa, Fiji and Tonga islands, and also New Zealand and its islands.
Chinese Term: 南太平洋
Translation:位于赤道以南，东南亚和澳大利亚之间的东半球和西半球南美的一个海，向南延伸到南极地区，包括塔斯曼海和珊瑚海和众多的岛屿，如加拉帕戈斯群岛，所罗门群岛，复活节，萨摩亚，斐济和汤加群岛，并新西兰及其岛屿。


Code: 7949
English Term: Southeast Asia
Definition: A geographic region of continental Asia, south of China, west of the South Pacific Ocean, north of the Indian Ocean, and east of the Bay of Bengal and the Indian subcontinent, including the Indochina Peninsula, the Malay Peninsula and the Indonesian and Philippine Archipelagos, and countries such as Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Chinese Term: 东南亚
Translation: 亚洲大陆的地理区域，南方太平洋西部，北印度洋和孟加拉湾的和印度次大陆，包括中南半岛，马来半岛和印度尼西亚和菲律宾群岛以东，如文莱，柬埔寨，印度尼西亚，老挝，马来西亚，缅甸，菲律宾，新加坡，泰国和越南。

Code: 7950
English Term: Southern Africa
Definition: A geographic region of the African continent astride the Tropic of Capricorn, including Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe, and also the Kalahari Desert, Zambezi River and Orange River.
Chinese Term: 南部非洲
Translation: 横跨南回归线的非洲大陆的地理区域，包括安哥拉，博茨瓦纳，莱索托，马拉维，莫桑比克，纳米比亚，南非，斯威士兰，赞比亚和津巴布韦非洲大陆的地理区域，也包括卡拉哈里沙漠，赞比西河和奥兰治河。


Code: 7951
English Term: Southern Asia
Definition: A geographic region of the Asian continent bordered in the north by the countries of Central Asia and in the south by the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, extending westward into Iran and eastward into China, including Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Burma, Bhutan and Sri Lanka.
Chinese Term: 南亚
Translation: 一个北部与中亚国家接壤，南部与阿拉伯海及孟加拉湾接壤的亚洲大陆的地理区域，向西延伸到伊朗，向东延伸到中国，包括有阿富汗，巴基斯坦，印度，尼泊尔，孟加拉国，缅甸，不丹和斯里兰卡。


Code: 7962
English Term: space (interplanetary)
Definition: Space extending between the sun and the planets of the solar system. Interplanetary space is not empty, but contains dust, particles with an electric charge, and the magnetic field of the sun (also called the IMF, or Interplanetary Magnetic Field).
Chinese Term: 空间（星际）
Translation:在太阳和太阳系的行星之间延伸的空间。行星际空间不是空的，但包含灰尘，带电荷的粒子，和太阳磁场（也称为国际货币基金，或行星际磁场）。


Code: 13300
English Term: space policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by government or some other organization, which seeks to support research and the exploration of planets, asteroids and other elements in the region beyond earth's atmosphere or beyond the solar system.
Chinese Term: 空间政策
Translation: 通过政府或其他组织从事或采用的行动方针，旨在支持研究和探索行星，小行星和地球以外的大气或地区以外的太阳系的其它要素。

Code: 14983
English Term: space research
Definition: Research involving studies of all aspects of environmental conditions beyond the atmosphere of the earth.
Chinese Term: 空间研究
Translation:涉及超出了地球大气范围的所有方面的研究。

Code: 7969
English Term: space transportation
Definition: Transportation by means of vehicles designed to operate in free space outside the earth's atmosphere.
Chinese Term: 空间运输
Translation: 专为自由空间之外的地球大气层设计的以交通工具为方式的交通运输。

Code: 7970
English Term: space travel
Definition: Travel in the space beyond the earth's atmosphere performed for scientific research purposes.
Chinese Term: 太空旅行
Translation: 为了科学研究，在地球大气层以外的空间旅游。

Code: 7972
English Term: space waste
Definition: Nonfunctional debris of human origin left in a multitude of orbits about the earth as the result of the exploration and use of the environment lying outside the earth's atmosphere.
Chinese Term: 太空废料
Translation: 由于在地球大气层之外探索和使用环境的缘故,人类沿地球轨道探索而留下的大量无用残骸。

Code: 7973
English Term: spasmodic croup
Definition:
Chinese Term: 痉挛性哮吼
Translation:


Code: 11118
English Term: spatial distribution
Definition: A distribution or set of geographic observations representing the values of behaviour of a particular phenomenon or characteristic across many locations on the surface of the Earth.
Chinese Term: 空间分布
Translation: 分布和地理观测表示特殊现象的行为和地球表面的许多地方特色的价值。

Code: 7974
English Term: spatial mobility
Definition: The rate of moves or migrations made by a given population within a given time frame.
Chinese Term: 空间流动
Translation:一些特定人群在一个给定的时间框架内的迁移率。

Code: 10521
English Term: spawning ground
Definition: Area of water where fish come each year to produce their eggs.
Chinese Term: 产卵场
Translation:鱼每年前来产卵的水域。

Code: 7975
English Term: special authorisation
Definition: An exceptional granting of power or permission or a legislative act authorizing money to be spent on government programs.
Chinese Term: 特别授权
Translation:一项特殊的授权或许可，或立法授予用于政府项目花费的行为。

Code: 12381
English Term: special industrial waste
Definition: Discarded material produced in any industrial process for which there is no specified mode of disposal.
Chinese Term: 特殊工业废料
Translation:任何没有指定处置方式的丢弃工业废弃材料的过程。

Code: 7978
English Term: special law
Definition: One relating to particular persons or things; one made for individual cases or for particular places or districts; one operating upon a selected class, rather than upon the public generally. A law is special when it is different from others of the same general kind or designed for a particular purpose, or limited in range or confined to a prescribed field of action or operation.
Chinese Term: 特别法
Translation:与特定的人或事物有关的；为个别案例或特定地方或地区而制定的；是选定的经营阶层，而不适用于普通民众。与其他一般人不同种类或针对特定目的而设计一项法律，或在有限的范围内，或仅限于特定的行为领域或者设计领域时，它是特殊的。


Code: 7981
English Term: special waste
Definition: Waste which must be handled in a particular manner and for which particular rules apply.
Chinese Term: 特殊废料
Translation:必须以一个特定的方式和以具体的方式处理的废料。


Code: 7976
English Term: specialisation (biological)
Definition: Evolutionary adaptation to a particular mode of life or habitat.
Chinese Term: 特化（生物）
Translation:适应特殊生活栖息方式的进化。

Code: 13197
English Term: speciality chemical
Definition: Various fine chemical products like glue, adhesives, resins, rubber, plastic compounds, selective herbicide, etc.
Chinese Term: 特殊化学品
Translation: 各种精细化工产品如胶水、粘合剂、树脂、橡胶、塑料化合物和选择性除草剂等。

Code: 7982
English Term: species
Definition: A taxonomic category ranking immediately below a genus and including closely related, morphologically similar individuals which actually or potentially inbreed.
Chinese Term: 物种, 种
Translation:分类类别排名仅次于一个属性，且包括密切相关的，形态相似实际地或潜在地近亲的个体。

Code: 7984
English Term: species conservation programme
Definition: An organized group of activities and procedures, often run by a government agency or a nonprofit organization, to preserve and protect living organisms designated as being at risk.
Chinese Term: 物种的保护计划
Translation:一个有组织的团体活动和程序。常常由政府机构或非盈利性组织，进行维护和保护濒临危险的生物。

Code: 7985
English Term: species impoverishment
Definition: Loss of species due to factors such as climate change or random events such as persistent drought, natural catastrophe, the emergence of a new predator, or genetic mutation.
Chinese Term: 物种贫困化
Translation:由于种种因素如气候变化或持续干旱,自然灾害事件，新的肉食动物的出现，或基因突变等偶发事件的出现导致的物种损失。

Code: 7986
English Term: species reintroduction
Definition: Reintroducing wild animal and plant species to their natural habitat. The reintroduction of species in a region requires a preliminary study to establish the reasons of their disappearance and the modifications that might have occurred in the biotopes.
Chinese Term: 物种再引入
Translation: 重新引进的野生动物和植物物种到自然栖息地。一个地区重新引进的物种需要一个初步的研究，以确定他们灭绝和可能在生物栖地发生变动的原因。

Code: 14901
English Term: spectral band
Definition: Closely grouped bands of lines characteristic of molecular gases of chemical compounds (spectroscopy).
Chinese Term: 光谱带
Translation:化合物的分子气体的线性特征的密集带（光谱）。

Code: 7992
English Term: spectroscopy
Definition: The branch of physics concerned with the production, measurement, and interpretation of electromagnetic spectra arising from either emission or absorption of radiant energy by various substances.
Chinese Term: 光谱学
Translation:物理学的分支，涉及生产，测量和无论从各种物质发射或辐射能量吸收而引起的电磁光谱的解释。


Code: 12598
English Term: speech
Definition: An address or form of oral communication in which a speaker makes his thoughts and emotions known before an audience, often for a given purpose.
Chinese Term: 演说
Translation:演讲者用写信或口头传播的形式使自己的想法和情感让观众知道，通常是为了某个特定目的。

Code: 7994
English Term: speed
Definition: A scalar measure of the rate of movement of a body expressed either as the distance travelled divided by the time taken (average speed) or the rate of change of position with respect to time at a particular point (instantaneous speed). It is measured in metres per second, miles per hour, etc.
Chinese Term: 速度
Translation:人体迁徙率的标量度量法，或是作为对行驶的距离除以所花时间（平均速度），或是对于时间而言的相对一个特定点的位置改变率（瞬时速度）。它是以米每秒，英里每小时等指标来衡量。


Code: 7996
English Term: speed limit
Definition: The maximum permitted speed at which a vehicle may travel on certain roads.
Chinese Term: 限速
Translation:一辆汽车在某些道路上被允许的最高速度。

Code: 7999
English Term: spider
Definition: Any predatory silk-producing arachnid of the order Araneae, having four pairs of legs and a rounded unsegmented body consisting of abdomen and cephalothorax.
Chinese Term: 蜘蛛
Translation:属于蜘蛛目的可产生捕食用的丝绸的蜘蛛，由四对腿和一个圆形不分节段体腹部和头胸部组成。


Code: 8000
English Term: spillage
Definition: The uncontrolled discharge, leakage, dripping or running over of fluids or liquid substances.
Chinese Term: 溢出物
Translation: 无节制的排放，泄漏，滴水或超过液体或液体物质溢出。


Code: 8004
English Term: spoil dump
Definition: Place where rubbish and waste minerals dug out of a mine are deposited.
Chinese Term: 废矿物弃置场
Translation:矿井中挖出的垃圾和废物的存放的地方。

Code: 10260
English Term: sponsorship
Definition: A person, firm, organization, etc. that provides or pledges money for an undertaking or event.
Chinese Term: 赞助
Translation: 某个人，公司，组织等提供或认捐款项的承诺或事件。

Code: 8008
English Term: sport
Definition: The complex of individual or group activities pursued for exercise or pleasure, often taking a competitive form.
Chinese Term: 运动
Translation: 个别或集体为追求运动或乐趣采取的复杂的活动，往往采取了竞技形式。

Code: 8014
English Term: sports facility
Definition: Buildings, constructions, installations, organized areas and equipment for indoor and outdoor sport activities.
Chinese Term: 体育设施
Translation: 用于室内和户外运动活动的建筑物、建筑、设施、组织区及设备。

Code: 8019
English Term: spray can
Definition: An aerosol can for applying paint, deodorant, etc., as a fine spray.
Chinese Term: 喷雾罐
Translation: 可使涂料、除臭剂等有良好的喷射效果的的气溶胶。

Code: 8020
English Term: sprayed asbestos
Definition: Asbestos emitted into the atmosphere in a spraying operation.
Chinese Term: 石棉喷沫
Translation: 石棉在喷涂作业时排放到大气中。

Code: 8025
English Term: spring (hydrology, land)
Definition: A place where ground water flows naturally from a rock or the soil onto the land surface or into a body of surface water.
Chinese Term: 春季（水文科学，土地）
Translation:天然地下水从石头或土壤流向地表或地表水体的地方。

Code: 8028
English Term: spring water
Definition: Water obtained from an underground formation from which water flows naturally to the surface, or would flow naturally to the surface if it were not collected underground.
Chinese Term: 泉水
Translation:地下形成的水天然流向地表，如果地下没有收集则水自然流向地表。

Code: 8029
English Term: spurting
Definition: Supplying water or pesticides to crops with a spray.
Chinese Term: 喷射状
Translation: 用喷雾的方式向农作物提供水或者杀虫剂

Code: 8031
English Term: square
Definition: An open area in a town, sometimes including the surrounding buildings.
Chinese Term: 广场
Translation:小镇的一块空地，有时还包括周围的建筑。


Code: 8032
English Term: squatter settlement
Definition: Settlement on land or property to which there is no legal title.
Chinese Term: 非法占用聚落
Translation: 没有法定所有权的村落或财产

Code: 8036
English Term: stabilisation lagoon
Definition: Ponds in which wastes are allowed to decompose over long periods of time and aeration is provided only by wind action. Sunlight is allowed to fall on sewage to purify it.
Chinese Term: 稳定池
Translation:可以在长时间内分解废弃物，并可以通风的池子。有阳光照在污水用于净化污水。

Code: 8037
English Term: stable
Definition: A building or structure usually with stalls that is used to house and feed horses, cattle or other animals.
Chinese Term: 马厩
Translation:通常是安置或饲养马，牛或其他动物的建筑物或构筑物。

Code: 8039
English Term: stack
Definition: The portion of a chimney rising above the roof.
Chinese Term: 烟囱
Translation:屋顶上升的烟囱部分。

Code: 8047
English Term: standard
Definition: 1) Something considered by an authority or by general consent as a basis of comparison.&#10; 2) An object regarded as the most common size or form of its kind.&#10; 3) A rule or principle that is used as a basis for judgment.&#10; 4) An average or normal quality, quantity, or level.
Chinese Term: 标准
Translation:1）被当局审议或者作为一个比较的基础被大多数人认可的。&#10;2）被认为是最常见的大小和形式的一个对象。&#10;3）作为判断的依据的一个规则或原则。&#10;4）平均或正常的质量，数量或水平

Code: 8051
English Term: standard for building industry
Definition: A norm or measure applicable in legal cases for any enterprise involved in the construction, remodeling or finishing of enclosed structures for habitation.
Chinese Term: 营造业标准
Translation:用于在法律案件方面,为任何参与建设，改造或用于居住的封闭式结构整理的一个适用规范或措施。

Code: 8048
English Term: standardisation
Definition: The act of conforming to a rule.
Chinese Term: 标准化
Translation: 符合规则的行为。

Code: 8056
English Term: staple food
Definition: The most commonly or regularly eaten food in a country or community and which forms the mainstay of the total calorie supply, especially in the poorer populations and at times of food shortage.
Chinese Term: 主食
Translation: 一个国家或社会成员最常或最有规律地吃的食物，尤其是贫困人口和在食物短缺时，总热量供应的支柱。


Code: 8057
English Term: starch
Definition: A polysaccharide which is a combination of many monosaccharide molecules, made during photosynthesis and stored as starch grains in many plants.
Chinese Term:淀粉
Translation:一种单糖分子结合成的多糖，在光合作用下形成并存储在许多植物中的淀粉粒。

Code: 8062
English Term: state
Definition: A people permanently occupying a fixed territory bound together by common law, habits and custom into one body politic exercising, through the medium of an organized government, independent sovereignty and control over all persons and things within its boundaries, unless or until authority is ceded to a federation or union of other states.
Chinese Term:国家
Translation: 由于普通的法律和习惯以及风俗，一个人永远占据一个固定的领土并与之成为一个整体，通过一个有组织的政府，独立的主权和控制所有领域范围内的人和物，除非或直到权利被割让联邦或其他联盟国家。

Code: 10202
English Term: state biological reserve
Definition: An area of land and/or of water designated as having protected status for purposes of preserving certain biological features. Reserves are managed primarily to safeguard these features and provide opportunities for research into the problems underlying the management of natural sites and of vegetation and animal populations. Regulations are normally imposed controlling public access and disturbance.
Chinese Term: 国家生物储备
Translation: 为了保护生物特征的目的，土地或/和水被划定处于受保护的地位的某个区域，储备主要是被管理以保持其特性，且为研究自然遗址管理，植被和动物种群潜在的问题方面提供机会。条例规定，通常控制公共接入和干扰。

Code: 11535
English Term: state control
Definition: The power or authority of a government to regulate or command industry, organizations, programs, initiatives and individuals.
Chinese Term:国家控制
Translation:政府为规范行业、组织、方案、倡议和个人而拥有的权利或权威。


Code:10694
English Term: state forest
Definition: Forest owned and managed by the State.
Chinese Term:国家森林
Translation:由国家拥有和管理的森林。

Code: 8072
English Term: state of matter
Definition: One of the three fundamental conditions of matter: the solid, the liquid, and gaseous states.
Chinese Term:物质状态
Translation:物质的三种基本状态：固体，液体，气体状态。

Code: 8067
English Term: state of the art
Definition: Everything made available to the public by means of a written or oral description, by use or in any other way before the date of the patent application, or an application filed in a foreign country the priority of which is validly claimed.
Chinese Term: 技术发展水平
Translation:通过书面或口头描述，使用或以其他它任何的方式在申请专利的日期或在外国一个有效申明的优先申请文件之前提供给公众的任何东西，

Code: 8070
English Term: state of waste
Definition:
Chinese Term: 废弃物状态
Translation:

Code: 8073
English Term: station
Definition: A place along a route or line at which a bus, train, etc. stops for fuel or to pick up or let off passengers or goods, especially with ancillary buildings and services.
Chinese Term:车站
Translation: 巴士，火车等沿着路线或线路上停靠取燃料或卸载乘客或货物的地方，尤其是附属建筑物和服务。

Code: 8074
English Term: statistical analysis
Definition: The body of techniques used in statistical inference concerning a population.
Chinese Term: 统计分析
Translation:关于人口的统计的技术。

Code: 8075
English Term: statistical data
Definition:
Chinese Term: 统计数据
Translation:

Code: 14883
English Term: statistical information
Definition: Knowledge pertaining to the collection, classification, analysis and interpretation of numerical data.
Chinese Term: 统计资料
Translation: 有关知识的收集、分类、分析和数值数据的解释


Code: 14882
English Term: statistical information system
Definition: A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources enabling the exchange of numerical data that has been collected, classified or interpreted for analysis.
Chinese Term: 统计信息系统
Translation:人通过协调组合，装置或其他资源，使数值数据进行交换，从而收集、归类或者分析解释。

Code: 11127
English Term: statistical series
Definition: An ordered sequence of data samples in numerical form used to predict or demonstrate trends through time and space.
Chinese Term: 统计数列
Translation: 样本的数据排列顺序通过时间和空间的趋势使用数字的形式来预测或证明。

Code: 8076
English Term: statistics
Definition: A branch of mathematics dealing with the collection, analysis, interpretation, and presentation of masses of numerical data.
Chinese Term: 统计学
Translation:数学的一个分支，用于处理收集、分析、解释和呈现大量的数学数据。

Code: 8078
English Term: status of development
Definition: The extent to which a society promotes human well-being in all dimensions of existence by forming people's capabilities, expanding choices and increasing opportunities.
Chinese Term: 发展状况
Translation:社会通过对人们能力的促成，选择的扩大和机遇的增长，从而在某些程度上促进了人类的福祉。

Code: 11427
English Term: statutory declaration
Definition: A declaration made in a prescribed form before a justice of the peace, notary public, or other person authorized to administer an oath.
Chinese Term: 法定声明
Translation: 按照规定的形式，出于正义，在有公证人或其他人授权下发表的声明。


Code: 8083
English Term: statutory public body
Definition: An association, supported in whole or part by public funding, that is established to operate programs for the public, often with little interference from government in day-to-day business.
Chinese Term: 法定公众团体
Translation: 全部或部分由公共资金支持，为群众设立运作方案，往往在没有政府干预下日常业务的一个协会。

Code: 13025
English Term: statutory text
Definition: A document or a portion thereof expressing an official enactment of a legislative body, with emphasis on the document's precise wording or language.
Chinese Term: 法定文本
Translation:表示一个立法机构成立而正式颁布的一个文件或文件的一部分，并强调了该文件的确切字眼或语言重点。

Code: 8084
English Term: steady noise
Definition: Unceasing prolonged noise, without interruption.
Chinese Term: 稳态噪声
Translation: 长期不断的噪音，没有中断。

Code: 8086
English Term: steam generator
Definition: A pressurized system in which water is vaporized to steam by heat transferred from a source of higher temperature, usually the products of combustion from burning fuels. Also known as steam boiler.
Chinese Term: 蒸汽发生器
Translation:水通过一个通常由燃烧燃料的燃烧产物，从较高的温度源转化并蒸发成水蒸汽的一个加压系统，也称为蒸汽锅炉。


Code: 8088
English Term: steel
Definition: Any of various alloys based on iron containing carbon (usually 0.1-0.7 per cent) and often small quantities of other elements such as phosphorus, sulphur, manganese, chromium, and nickel. Steels exhibit a variety of properties, such as strength, machinability, malleability, etc., depending on their composition and the way they have been treated.
Chinese Term: 钢
Translation: 含碳（通常为百分之0.1-0.7）基础上的的铁合金，经常含有少量其它元素，如磷、硫、锰、铬等。钢呈现出的强度，可加工性，可塑性等品种的属性，这取决于它们的组成和它们被处理的方式。

Code: 8089
English Term: steel industry
Definition: Industry that deals with the processing of iron.
Chinese Term: 钢铁行业
Translation:涉及铁处理的产业。

Code: 13183
English Term: sterilisation (biological)
Definition: Procedure by which a human or other animal is made incapable of reproduction.
Chinese Term: 绝育
Translation:使得一个人或动物丧失生殖能力的手术。

Code: 8095
English Term: sterilisation (process)
Definition: An act or process of destroying all forms of microbial life on and in an object.
Chinese Term: 绝育（过程）
Translation:破坏微生物生活环境的行为或者过程。

Code: 8096
English Term: steroid
Definition: A compound composed of a series of four carbon rings joined together to form a structural unit called cyclopentanoper hydrophenanthrene.
Chinese Term: 类固醇
Translation: 四碳环组成的一系列化合物结合在一起，形成一个结构单元称为cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene


Code: 8099
English Term: stock (biological)
Definition: A group of individuals of one species within a specified area.
Chinese Term: 股票（生物）
Translation: 一个特定区域内的某物种的特体组成的团体。

Code: 13182
English Term: stock (trade)
Definition: Stored products ready for sale.
Chinese Term: 存货
Translation:为销售做准备而存储的产品。

Code: 8100
English Term: stock management
Definition: The handling or controlling of accumulated materials or stored goods.
Chinese Term: 库存管理
Translation: 处理或控制积累的材料或存储的货物。

Code: 4548
English Term: stocking
Definition: To keep a supply accumulated for future use.
Chinese Term: 储备
Translation:积累供应以备将来之用。

Code: 8102
English Term: stocktaking
Definition: The counting over of materials or goods on hand, as in a stockroom or store.
Chinese Term: 清点存货
Translation:仓库或商店中，清点现有的材料或物品。

Code: 8104
English Term: stone
Definition: A general term for rock that is used in construction, either crushed for use as aggregate or cut into shaped blocks as dimension stone.
Chinese Term:石头
Translation:用于建筑的石头的普遍称呼，无论是压碎用于整体或者成型用于石材。

Code: 14976
English Term: storage (process)
Definition: A series of actions undertaken to deposit or hold goods, materials or waste in some physical location, as in a facility, container, tank or dumping site.
Chinese Term: 存储（过程）
Translation:处理持有的物品，材料或某些物理位置的废物，如在设施，容器或倾倒区的一系列行动。

Code: 8110
English Term: storage dam
Definition: A barrier of concrete, earth, etc., built across a river to create a body of water.
Chinese Term: 蓄水的蓄水坝
Translation: 水泥建造的障碍物、土等，建成横跨河流的水体。

Code: 8115
English Term: storm
Definition: An atmospheric disturbance involving perturbations of the prevailing pressure and wind fields on scales ranging from tornadoes to extratropical cyclones; also the associated weather and the like.
Chinese Term: 风暴
Translation:涉及气压扰动的，其规模有从旋风到温带旋风的风场和占主导地位的大气压的干扰，与天气和同类情况相关。

Code: 8117
English Term: storm damage
Definition: Storms may cause flooding and damage to crops; uproot trees; damage roofs and chimneys; break windows, leading to rain damage; overturn trucks; affect transportation, communication and energy supplies; delay building construction and destroy traditional landmarks. In their more violent form, storms may cause severe damage and loss of life.
Chinese Term: 风暴害
Translation: 暴风雨造成洪水泛滥和破坏作物；树木连根拔起，损坏屋顶和烟囱；打破窗户，导致破坏；推翻卡车，影响交通、通讯和能源供应；拖延和破坏传统建筑的标志。更暴力的形式，风暴可能造成严重的破坏和生命损失。

Code: 12263
English Term: storm water basin
Definition: Basin used to hold water which falls as rain during a storm.
Chinese Term: 雨水盆地
Translation: 风暴降雨期间用来积水的盆地。

Code: 8122
English Term: stove
Definition: A chamber within which a fuel-air mixture is burned to provide heat, the heat itself being radiated outward from the chamber; used for space heating, process-fluid heating, and steel blast furnaces.
Chinese Term: 炉, 火炉
Translation: 房间内的燃料和空气混合燃烧，以提供热室，热本身是向外辐射，给空间加热，给流体加热，给钢铁高炉加热。

Code: 8125
English Term: stratification
Definition: The arrangement of a body of water, as a lake, into two or more horizontal layers of different characteristics, especially densities.
Chinese Term: 分层
Translation: 作为一个湖泊，水体的分布，为两个或更多的不同特征的横向层次,特指密度。

Code: 8128
English Term: stratosphere
Definition: The layer of the atmosphere which is sandwiched between the troposphere and mesosphere. Of the energy that reaches the Earth from the sun, only 3% is absorbed in the stratosphere, but that includes the vitally important process of absorption of ultraviolet radiation by the stratospheric ozone layer. The stratosphere is cloudless and dust free, and almost unaffected by the turbulent conditions of the underlying level of the atmosphere.
Chinese Term: 平流层
Translation: 大气的层，是对流层和中间层之间的夹心层，太阳能量到达地球的只有3％是在平流层吸收，但包括极为重要的臭氧吸收紫外线辐射的过程，平流层无云且无尘埃，几乎不受底下气流的动荡影响。

Code: 8129
English Term: stratospheric ozone depletion
Definition: Damage of the ozone shield by chemicals released on Earth. The main chemicals that are depleting stratospheric ozone are chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are used in refrigerators, aerosols, and as cleaners in many industries, and halons which are used in fire extinguishers. The damage is caused when these chemicals release highly reactive forms of chlorine and bromine.
Chinese Term: 臭氧层破坏
Translation: 地球上释放的化学物质对臭氧层的破坏。而消耗平流层臭氧的主要化学品是含氯氟烃（CFC），它多用于冰箱，气雾剂，并在很多行业用于清洁剂，灭火器等。当这些化学物质释放的氯和溴的呈高活性形式时，便会造成的损害。

Code: 8133
English Term: stream measurement
Definition: The quantitative determination of the rate and amount of flow or discharge from a natural body of running water, such as a small river or brook.
Chinese Term: 河流测量
Translation: 定量测定纯天然流水，如河流或小溪的费率，流动或排放量。

Code: 8136
English Term: street cleaning
Definition: The process of removing dirt, litter or other unsightly materials from city or town streets.
Chinese Term: 清洁街道
Translation: 从其他城市或城镇街道去除污垢，垃圾或不雅观材料的过程。

Code: 8140
English Term: strength of materials
Definition:
Chinese Term: 材料力学；材料强度
Translation:

Code: 8141
English Term: stress
Definition: A stimulus or succession of stimuli of such magnitude as to tend to disrupt the homeostasis of the organism.
Chinese Term: 压力
Translation:某种刺激或大规模连续的刺激，往往扰乱体内器官的平衡。

Code: 8143
English Term: strip mining
Definition: Superficial mining, in which the valuable rock is exposed by removal of overburden. Coal, numerous nonmetals and metalliferous ores (iron and copper) are worked in this way. Sinonym: strip mining, opencast mining, openpit mining.
Chinese Term: 露天剥采
Translation:浅表性开采，通过去除岩石覆盖以得到其中有价值的层：煤炭，非金属以这种方式工作的含金属（铁，铜）的矿物。同义：条带开采、露天开采、露天矿开采。

Code: 11671
English Term: strong acidity
Definition: High degree of ionization of an acid in water solution.
Chinese Term: 强酸度
Translation:水溶液中的高度电离。

Code: 8144
English Term: strontium
Definition: A soft silvery-white element of the alkaline earth group of metals, occurring chiefly as celestite and as strontianite. Its compounds burn with a crimson flame and are used in fire works.
Chinese Term: 锶
Translation:碱土中的软的银白色金属元素，主要是天青石和菱锶矿。它的化合物燃烧时具有深红色的火焰，并用于消防工程中。

Code: 8145
English Term: structural adjustment program
Definition: A program for economic reforms aimed at improving or liberalizing an economy, which is advocated and imposed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund on poor or developing countries in exchange for new loans.
Chinese Term: 结构调整方案
Translation:一种经济改革方案，旨在改善或开放经济体系，由世界银行和国际货币基金组织对贫穷或发展中国家在获取新的贷款交换的倡导和强加。

Code: 8151
English Term: structure plan
Definition: Metropolitan structure and land use plan intended to outline the general lines along which development should proceed in an area.
Chinese Term: 结构图
Translation: 城市结构和土地的使用规划， 目的是划出一般轮廓线条，一个地区的发展应该沿着它进行。

Code: 8148
English Term: structure-activity relationship
Definition: The association between a chemical structure and carcinogenicity.
Chinese Term: 构效关系
Translation: 化学结构和致癌性之间的关系。

Code: 8149
English Term: structure-borne noise
Definition: Sound that travels over at least part of its path by means of the vibration of a solid structure.
Chinese Term: 结构噪声
Translation: 通过一个稳固的结构的振动，声音传导至少其路径的一部分。


Code: 14848
English Term: subject
Definition:
Chinese Term:主题
Translation:

Code: 8159
English Term: submarine
Definition:
Chinese Term: 潜艇
Translation:

Code: 8158
English Term: submarine morphology
Definition: That aspect of geological oceanography which deals with the relief features of the ocean floor and with the forces that modify them.
Chinese Term: 海底形态学
Translation: 地质海洋学方面，处理海底的地形特征并试图修改它们。

Code: 14931
English Term: sub-national boundary
Definition: The line demarcating a territory located within the limits of a State.
Chinese Term: 州界、省界
Translation:一国范围内划定的界限。

Code: 8162
English Term: subsequent order
Definition:
Chinese Term: 后补令
Translation:

Code: 8163
English Term: subsidence
Definition: 1) A sinking down of a part of the earth's crust, generally due to underground excavations.&#10; 2) The sudden sinking or gradual downward settling of the Earth's surface with little or no horizontal motion. The movement is not restricted in rate, magnitude, or area involved. Subsidence may be caused by natural geologic processes, such as solution, thawing, compaction, slow crustal warping, or withdrawal of fluid lava from beneath a solid crust; or by man's activity, such as subsurface mining or the pumping of oil or ground water.
Chinese Term: 沉陷
Translation:1）由于地下挖掘造成的地球的地壳部分下沉。2）突然或逐渐下沉，地球几乎没有或根本没有水平运动表面向下沉降。该运动不限速度，规模，或地区。沉降可能是由于自然地质过程，如溶解，融化，压实，流体熔岩退出了坚实的地壳下，或由于人的活动，如地下采矿或石油或地面抽水。

Code: 11018
English Term: subsidiary principle
Definition: The fundamental doctrine or tenet that policy making decisions should be made at the most decentralized level, in which a centralized governing body would not take action unless it it is more effective than action taken at a lower government level.
Chinese Term: 辅助原则
Translation: 最根本的原则或宗旨，决策的决定应在最分散的水平，其中一个集中的管理机构将不采取行动，除非它是在一个较低的多级政府才会采取较有效的行动。

Code: 8165
English Term: subsidy
Definition: Any monetary grant made by the government to a private industrial undertaking or charitable organization, but especially one given to consumers or producers in order to lower the market price of some service or product and make it readily affordable to the public.
Chinese Term: 补贴
Translation: 由政府向一个私营工业企业或慈善组织给予货币，尤其是给消费者或生产者，目的是降低一些服务和产品的市场价格，使得公众能够消费得起。

Code: 8167
English Term: subsoil
Definition: Soil underlying surface soil, devoid of plant roots.
Chinese Term: 下层土
Translation: 土壤下层的土壤，缺乏植物根系。

Code: 8168
English Term: subsoil drainage
Definition: The removal of surplus water from within the soil by natural or artificial means, such as by drains placed below the surface to lower the water table below the root zone.
Chinese Term: 地下排水
Translation: 自然或人工的手段，如通过放置在地表以下的水渠，以降低根区以下的水位，从土壤内去除多余的水。

Code: 8171
English Term: substitutability (chemistry)
Definition: The capability of a substance of being replaced by another, for example sweeteners used in place of sugar.
Chinese Term: 可替代性（化学）
Translation:可被其他物品替代的性能，例如甜味剂代替糖。

Code: 8173
English Term: substitution of halogenated compounds
Definition: Halogenated compounds, because of their toxical and persistent character, should be substituted by environmental friendly compounds, like water-based fat solvents in metal processing industry or water-based coating agents.
Chinese Term: 替代卤代化合物
Translation: 卤代化合物由于其产生毒性和持久性的性质，应该由环保物质代替，如在金属加工行业或水性涂料剂中的水性脂肪溶剂。

Code: 8174
English Term: substitution of phosphate
Definition: Replacement of phosphate in detergents by environmentally safer substances, such as zeolite. The substitute will not act as a nutrient, and so will not cause eutrophication as a result of the accelerated growth of plants and microorganisms if it is released into waterways.
Chinese Term: 替换磷酸盐
Translation: 在洗涤剂中由环保更安全的物质，如沸石等取代磷酸盐。替代物不会充当养分，所以当它是释放到水中时，不会造成作为植物和微生物富营养化而加速增长。

Code: 8175
English Term: substrate cultivation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 受质培养
Translation:

Code: 8179
English Term: subtropical ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in regions bordering on the tropics or the regions between tropical and temperate zones.
Chinese Term: 亚热带生态系统
Translation:与热带接壤的地区或者位于热带和温带之间的地区的一个群落及其周围的非生物环境。

Code: 8182
English Term: suburb
Definition: A residential district situated on the outskirts of a city or town.
Chinese Term:郊区
Translation: 坐落在一个城市或城镇的郊区的一个居住区。

Code: 4177
English Term: sudden load
Definition: Sudden immission in considerable amount of one or more pollutants in the atmosphere, in a water body or in the soil.
Chinese Term: 骤加载荷
Translation: 突然在水体或土壤中的排入相当数量的一种或多种大气污染物。

Code: 8185
English Term: sugar (product)
Definition: A sweet crystalline or powdered substance, white when pure, consisting of sucrose obtained mainly from sugar cane and sugar beets and used in many foods, drinks, and medicines to improve their taste.
Chinese Term: 糖副产品
Translation: 蔗糖组成的纯白色甜的结晶或粉状物质，主要由来自甘蔗和甜菜中的糖，且用于多种食物、饮料、药品，以改善它们的口味。

Code: 8188
English Term: sugar industry
Definition: Establishments primarily engaged in processing raw cane sugar, sugar beets or starches to finished sucrose, glucose or fructose. By-products of this industry include beet pulp and inedible molasses.
Chinese Term: 制糖工业
Translation: 主要从事加工原料甘蔗的机构，按这个行业的产品包括纸浆和非食用甜菜糖蜜，把甜菜或淀粉加工成成品蔗糖、葡萄糖或果糖。

Code: 8190
English Term: sulphate
Definition: A salt or ester of sulfuric acid, widely distributed in nature and often found in the atmosphere.
Chinese Term: 硫酸盐
Translation: 在自然界分布广泛，而且往往在大气中发现的盐或硫酸酯。

Code: 8192
English Term: sulphide
Definition: Any compound that includes one or more sulfur atoms with a more electropositive element, either carbon, metal or some other nonoxygen atom.
Chinese Term: 硫化物
Translation: 其中包括一个或多个硫原子与一个正电的元素的任何化合物，无论是碳、金属原子或某些其它非羰基氧。

Code: 8198
English Term: sulphur
Definition: A nonmetallic element existing in a crystalline or amorphous form and in four stable isotopes; used as a chemical intermediate and fungicide, and in rubber vulcanization. It is deposited from volcanic vents and fumaroles and also is found in sedimentary rocks, particularly with gypsum and limestone, and associated with salt-domes. Native sulphur is the main source of sulphur for the sulphuric acid industry, followed by sour gas (natural gas containing hydrogen sulphide) and pyrite. Sulphur is an essential plant macronutrient.
Chinese Term: 硫磺
Translation: 非金属元素以结晶或无定形的形式存在，且有四个稳定同位素，用作化学中间体、杀菌剂和橡胶硫化。它存在于火山喷口和沉积喷气孔，也存在与沉积岩，尤其是石膏，石灰石等，并与盐相关的圆顶。自然硫是硫酸工业中硫化的主要来源物，成为酸气（天然气含有硫化氢后）和黄铁矿。硫是一个重要的植物营养素。

Code: 8200
English Term: sulphur concentration
Definition: Sulphur content in a solution.
Chinese Term: 外围空气的二氧化硫浓度
Translation: 硫含量的解决方案。

Code: 8202
English Term: sulphur dioxide
Definition: Emissions of the gas given off during the burning of fossil fuels in power stations and other boilers. Sulphur dioxide is created because sulphur is an impurity in most coal and oils. When the fuel is burned the hot sulphur reacts with oxygen in the atmosphere to form sulphur dioxide.
Chinese Term: 二氧化硫
Translation: 电站锅炉和其它化石燃料的燃烧期间排放的气体。二氧化硫的形成是因为在大多数的煤和油中存在硫杂质。当燃料燃烧大气中的氧气，通过热硫反应生成二氧化硫。

Code: 11734
English Term: sulphur monoxide
Definition: A gas at ordinary temperatures; produces an orange-red deposit when cooled to temperatures of liquid air; prepared by passing an electric discharge through a mixture of sulfur vapor and sulfur dioxide at low temperature.
Chinese Term: 硫一氧化碳
Translation: 普通温度下的气体。当冷却到液态空气温度时产生橘红色的沉淀；硫蒸气和二氧化硫的混合物在低温条件下的放电而生成。

Code: 8204
English Term: sulphur oxide
Definition: An oxide of sulphur, such as sulphur dioxide and sulphur trioxide; they are formed primarily from the combustion of fossil fuels; major air pollutants and cause of damage to the respiratory tract as well as vegetation.
Chinese Term: 硫氧化物
Translation: 硫氧化物，如二氧化硫和三氧化硫，它们主要是由化石燃料燃烧形成的，是主要的空气污染物，造成呼吸道以及植被的损坏。

Code: 8203
English Term: sulphuric acid
Definition: A toxic, corrosive, strongly acid, colorless liquid that is miscible with water and dissolves most metals, and melts at 10C; used in industry in the manufacture of chemicals, fertilizers and explosives, and in petroleum refining.
Chinese Term: 硫酸
Translation: 一种有毒、有腐蚀性、强酸性、无色液体与水混溶，溶于大多数金属，并在10℃条件下融化；用于化学工业制造、化肥和炸药、石油的炼制。

Code: 14912
English Term: supervised image classification
Definition: A graphical representation processing technique by which an analyst selects groups of pixels, determines their spectral response signature and trains a computer system to recognize pixels based on this spectral response pattern.
Chinese Term: 受监视的影像分类
Translation: 图形表示的加工工艺，分析师通过它选择象素组，决定其频谱响应特性并在此光谱反应模式的基础上训练电脑系统以识别像素。

Code: 8212
English Term: supervision of building works
Definition: The oversight or direction in the construction and maintenance of houses, facilities, offices and other structures.
Chinese Term: 监督建筑工程
Translation: 在建筑和房屋维修、设施、办公室及其他建筑结构中的监督或指示。

Code: 8213
English Term: supervision of installation
Definition: The oversight or direction over the process of setting up or making adjustments to a building or to a mechanical or electrical system or apparatus.
Chinese Term: 指导安装
Translation: 建筑物或机械或电气系统或设备的安装和调节过程中的监督或指示。

Code: 8214
English Term: supervisory body
Definition: An appointed or official group given the responsibility of overseeing or managing normal work operations, special projects or other functions of an organization or agency.
Chinese Term: 监督机构
Translation: 获委任或权威给予特殊项目或一个组织或机构的其他职能的监督或代理，使其能正常运作。

Code: 8219
English Term: supply (trade)
Definition: The willingness and ability to sell a range of quantities of a good at a range of prices, during a given time period. Supply is one half of the market exchange process; the other is demand.
Chinese Term: 供应（贸易）
Translation:在某一时间段内出售某价格范围内的一定数量范围商品的意愿或能力，市场的交换过程的一半是供应，另一半是需求。

Code: 10940
English Term: supply and demand
Definition: The relationship between the amount or quantity of a commodity that is available for purchase and the desire or ability of consumers to buy or purchase the commodity, which, in theory, determines the commodity's price in a free market.
Chinese Term: 供需
Translation:可供购买的一定金额或数量的商品与消费者购买的愿望或购买能力之间的关系，这种关系在理论上，决定了自由市场的商品的价格。

Code: 14619
English Term: surface active compound
Definition: Any soluble substance composed of two or more unlike atoms held together by chemical bonds that reduces interfacial tension between liquids or a liquid and a solid, often used as detergents, wetting agents and emulsifiers.
Chinese Term: 表面活性化合物
Translation: 可溶性物质组成的两个或两个以上的不同原子由于化学键而结合在一起，可降低化学液体或液体与固体之间的表面张力，经常被用来作为洗涤剂、润湿剂和乳化剂。

Code: 8225
English Term: surface runoff
Definition: Water that travels over the soil surface to the nearest surface stream; runoff of a drainage basin that has not passed beneath the surface since precipitation.
Chinese Term: 地表径流
Translation:流经地表到达最近的地面流的水，一个流域的径流由于降水没有通过在表面之下。

Code: 8226
English Term: surface tension
Definition: The force acting on the surface of a liquid, tending to minimize the area of the surface; quantitatively, the force that appears to act across a line of unit length on the surface. Also known as interfacial force; interfacial tension; surface intensity.
Chinese Term: 表面张力
Translation:作用于液体表面的力，定量的力量，似乎在一个单位长度线作用于表面，使其尽量减少表面积。也称为界面力；界面张力，表面强度。

Code: 8227
English Term: surface treatment
Definition: Any method of treating a material (metal, polymer, or wood) so as to alter the surface, rendering it receptive to inks, paints, lacquers, adhesives, and various other treatments, or resistant to weather or chemical attack.
Chinese Term: 表面处理
Translation: 任何处理的材料（金属，聚合物或木材），让它接受油墨、涂料、油漆、粘合剂、以及其他各种处理，或抗天气或化学攻击方法，以改变材料表面。

Code: 8229
English Term: surface water
Definition: All waters on the surface of the Earth found in streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, marshes or wetlands, and as ice and snow.
Chinese Term: 地表水
Translation:地球表面发现在溪流、河流、池塘、湖泊、沼泽、湿地和冰雪的所有水域。

Code: 10058
English Term: surface water management
Definition: The administration or handling of water naturally open to the atmosphere (rivers, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, streams, seas, etc.).
Chinese Term: 地面水管理
Translation: 自然开放时（河流、湖泊、水库、池塘、溪流、海洋等）的水的管理或处理。

Code: 8222
English Term: surface-active agent
Definition: A substance that, when used in small quantities, modifies the surface properties of liquids or solids. A surface-active agent reduces surface tension in a fluid or the interfacial tension between two immiscible fluids, such as oil and water. Surfactants are particularly useful in accomplishing the wetting or penetration of solids by aqueous liquids and serve in the manner of detergent, emulsifying, or dispersing agents. They are more effective than soap in certain situations and are used by conservators for such purposes as cleaning, wetting, and dispersing.
Chinese Term: 表面活性剂
Translation: 小批量使用，用于改变液体或固体表面性质一种物质。采用表面活性剂降低表面流体或两个不混溶流体如油和水的界面张力。表面活性剂，特别是用于水的液体或固体润湿渗透有益和服务方式的洗涤剂，乳化或分散剂。他们比在某些情况下肥皂用作上述用途的清洗润湿方面更有效，且被环保专家用于此类目的的清洁、润湿和分散。

Code: 8236
English Term: surgical waste
Definition: Any tissue, blood or mucus removed during surgery or autopsy, soiled surgical dressings, or other materials requiring special disposal procedures.
Chinese Term: 外科手术废弃物
Translation: 在手术或尸体解剖中被清除的任何组织，血液或粘液，手术敷料或需要特殊处理程序的其它材料。

Code: 8237
English Term: surplus
Definition: The extent to which assets exceed liabilities, especially the profits remaining after operating expenses, taxes, interest and insurance costs are subtracted.
Chinese Term: 过剩的
Translation: 在某程度上资产超过负债，特别是减去经营费用后，剩余的利润、税金、利息和保险费用。

Code: 8239
English Term: surveillance
Definition: System that permits the continuous observation, measurement and evaluation of the progress of a process or phenomenon with the view to taking corrective measures.
Chinese Term: 监视
Translation: 允许连续观测，测量和对一个过程或现象的看法进展评估采取纠正措施的系统。

Code: 8240
English Term: survey
Definition: A critical examination of facts or conditions to provide information on a situation. Usually conducted by interviews and/or on-site visitations.
Chinese Term: 测量; 勘察
Translation: 对大量的事实和条件进行严格审查，以提供有关情况的资料。通常情况下进行的访谈和/或现场访视。

Code: 10554
English Term: survival
Definition: The act or fact of surviving or condition of having survived.
Chinese Term: 幸存
Translation: 尚存的行为或事实或状况之后的生还。

Code: 12220
English Term: suspended matter
Definition: Matter suspended in a fluid by the upward components of turbulent currents or by colloidal suspension.
Chinese Term: 悬浮物;悬浮质;混悬物质
Translation: 物质悬浮在流体的湍流电流的上升部分或胶体悬浮。

Code: 8247
English Term: sustainable development
Definition: Development that provides economic, social and environmental benefits in the long term having regard to the needs of living and future generations. Defined by the World Commission on Environment and Development in 1987 as: development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
Chinese Term: 可持续发展
Translation: 发展提供长远考虑，考虑到子孙后代生活的需要和长远的经济、社会和环境效益。由世界环境与发展委员会于1987年定义：发展满足当代人的需求，但又不损害子孙后代能满足他们自己的需要。

Code: 8249
English Term: sustainable development indicator
Definition: Statistical indicators used for measuring sustainable development that may be chosen among a wide range of themes as, for example, environmental capacity and quality of life.
Chinese Term: 可持续发展指标
Translation:用于衡量可持续发展的统计指标，可能是其中一个作为主题，广泛选择，例如，环境容量和生活质量。

Code: 8250
English Term: sustainable use
Definition: Use of the environment and its living resources at a rate that does not exceed its capacity for renewal in order to ensure its availability for future generations.
Chinese Term: 可持续利用
Translation: 环境及其生物资源的利用的速度不超过其再生能力，以确保其为子孙后代的供给。

Code: 14194
English Term: swamp
Definition: A permanently waterlogged area in which there is often associated tree growth, e.g. mangroves in hot climates.
Chinese Term: 沼泽(地)
Translation: 一个永久涝区，往往在炎热的气候伴生树种生长，如红树林。

Code: 404
English Term: swans, geese and ducks
Definition: A family of waterfowl, including ducks, gees, mergansers, pochards and swans, in the order Anseriformes.
Chinese Term: 天鹅，鹅，鸭
Translation: 一个系列的水禽，包括鸭、家鹅、秋沙鸭、潜鸭、天鹅，雁形目中的排列次序。

Code: 8255
English Term: sweetener
Definition: A sweetening agent, especially one that does not contain sugar.
Chinese Term: 糖浆；甜味剂
Translation: 脱硫剂，尤其是不包含糖。

Code: 12174
English Term: swell
Definition: A regular movement of marine waves created by wind stress in the open ocean which travels considerable distances away from the generating field and into another wind field. The waves are characterized by relatively smooth, generally unbroken, crests and a fairly regular wavelength, but swell increases in wavelength and decreases in wave height as it moves away from the generating area. Local wind waves may be superimposed upon swell waves as they approach a coastline, thereby creating sharper crests and a choppy sea.
Chinese Term:汹涌
Translation:由空旷的海洋上的风压造成的海洋波浪的规则运动，它远离发电场移动，并移到另一个风场。浪的特点是相对平稳，一般不间断，有波峰和比较规则的波长，但当它远离电场时波长增加和波高减小都比较剧烈。当地风浪因为在海岸线相遇，会在涌浪叠加，从而创造一个更清晰的波峰和波涛汹涌的海浪。

Code: 8259
English Term: symbiosis
Definition: A close and mutually beneficial association of organisms of different species.
Chinese Term: (通常互利的)共生(现象)
Translation: 一个不同种的生物紧密和互利的生活。

Code: 8262
English Term: synecology
Definition: Study of the ecology of organisms, populations, communities or systems.
Chinese Term: 群落生态学
Translation: 在生物生态学、人口、社区或系统的研究。

Code: 8263
English Term: synergism
Definition: An ecological association in which the physiological processes of behaviour of an individual are enhanced by the nearby presence of another organism.
Chinese Term: 协同作用
Translation: 一个生态协会，其中一个人的行为的生理过程是由附近的另一种生物的存在而得到增强。

Code: 8265
English Term: synergistic effect of toxic substances
Definition: 1) A state in which the combined effect of two or more substances is greater than the sum of the separate effects. &#10;2) An effect whereby two toxic substance together have more of an impact than anticipated.
Chinese Term: 协同作用的有毒物质
Translation:1）在一个国家里，两个或两个以上的物质结合效果总和比单独作用的效果强。&#10;2）作用，使两种有毒物质具有一个共同的影响比预期的更强。

Code: 8268
English Term: synthetic detergent
Definition: An artificially produced solid or liquid cleansing substance that acts like soap but is stronger, and is capable of dissolving oily materials and dispersing them in water.
Chinese Term: 合成洗涤剂
Translation: 人为生产的固体或液体清洁物质，像肥皂但比肥皂强效，有能力使油性物质溶解和分散在水里。

Code: 8269
English Term: synthetic fibres industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 合成纤维工业
Translation:

Code: 8272
English Term: synthetic material
Definition: Material made artificially by chemical reaction.
Chinese Term: 合成材料
Translation: 人工化学反应制成的材料。

Code: 8273
English Term: synthetic materials industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 合成材料行业
Translation:

Code: 8275
English Term: synthetic textile fibre
Definition: An artificially produced filament or threadlike strand used by manufacturers to produce clothes or other goods that require weaving, knitting or felting, including polyester, nylon, rayon and other similar material.
Chinese Term: 人造纤维
Translation: 人造丝或者制造商用于需要编织，针织或粘结，包括聚酯、尼龙、人造丝和其它类似材料生产衣服或其它物品的丝状链。

Code: 8278
English Term: systems analysis
Definition: A means of organizing elements into an integrated analytic and/or decisionmaking procedure to achieve the best possible results.
Chinese Term: 系统分析
Translation:把一些因素组织成一个整体进行分析的方法且/或以达到最佳的可能结果的决策程序。

Code: 8279
English Term: systems comparison
Definition: Analysis or estimate noting similarities and differences in the operations of businesses and organizations.
Chinese Term: 系统的比较
Translation: 分析或估计指出相似点和在企业和组织的运作中的差异。

Code: 8280
English Term: systems theory
Definition: The science concerned with the general study of structures and behaviours of systems which may be applicable in different branches of learning.
Chinese Term: 系统理论
Translation: 从事结构的一般研究和适用于不同学习分支系统的行为的科学。

Code: 6508
English Term: tailings pond
Definition: Any collection of liquid effluents or wastewater drained or separated out during the processing of crops or mineral ores.
Chinese Term: 尾矿池
Translation: 收集废液或废水排放或在作物或矿石加工时废水的分离。

Code: 8283
English Term: taking of evidence
Definition: In criminal law and torts, the act of laying hold upon an evidence, with or without removing the same.
Chinese Term: 掌握证据
Translation:在犯罪或侵权中，持有证据的行为，有或者没有删除相同。

Code: 8286
English Term: tank farm
Definition: Storage space for containers of liquids or gases.
Chinese Term: 油库
Translation:储存液体或气体的容器。

Code: 8285
English Term: tanker (ship)
Definition: A ship designed for bulk shipment of liquids or gases.
Chinese Term:油轮（船）
Translation: 为装运散装液体或气体而设计的船舶。

Code: 8284
English Term: tanker (truck)
Definition: A truck designed for bulk shipment of liquids or gases.
Chinese Term: 油轮（卡车）
Translation: 为装运散装液体或气体而设计的卡车

Code: 8289
English Term: tannin
Definition: One of a group of complex organic chemicals commonly found in leaves, unripe fruits, and the bark of trees. Their function is uncertain though the unpleasant taste may discourage grazing animals. Some tannins have commercial uses, notably in the production of leather and ink; used in tanning, as a mordant in dyeing, and in ink manufacture.
Chinese Term: 单宁
Translation:复杂的有机化学品，常见于叶子，未成熟的水果和树木的树皮。它的功能不确定但令人不快的味道可能不允许用于放牧牲畜。有一些单宁具有商业用途，特别是在皮革和油墨生产；用于制革，作为媒染剂染色和油墨制造材料。

Code: 8296
English Term: tar
Definition: A viscous material composed of complex, high-molecular-weight, compounds derived from the distillation of petroleum or the destructive distillation of wood or coal.
Chinese Term: 焦油
Translation: 一个复杂的粘性材料，高分子量化合物，来自石油蒸馏或木材或煤的干馏。

Code: 8303
English Term: tar production
Definition: The manufacture of dark, heavy, viscous substances or residue, which is obtained by the distillation of organic materials such as coal, wood and petroleum.
Chinese Term: 焦油生产
Translation: 深色的、重、粘性物质或残渣的制造，从有机材料如煤炭，木材和石油的蒸馏中获得。

Code: 8304
English Term: tar sand
Definition: A sandstone in which hydrocarbons have been trapped; the lighter compounds evaporate, leaving a residue of asphalt in the rock pores.
Chinese Term: 沥青砂
Translation: 一种砂岩，其中的碳氢化合物已被分离，蒸发较轻的化合物，留在岩石孔隙的沥青残渣。

Code: 8305
English Term: tar use
Definition: Any employment or utilization of dark, heavy, viscous substances or residue derived from the distillation of certain organic materials, often to produce benzene, soap, dyes, cosmetics and other products.
Chinese Term: 焦油使用
Translation: 深色的、重、粘性物质或来自某些有机材料蒸馏的残留物的职业或利用，常用于生产苯、肥皂、染料、化妆品等产品。

Code: 8299
English Term: target group
Definition: A collection of people selected and approached by some entity for a variety of purposes, including assistance, recruitment, information dissemination, marketing and research.
Chinese Term: 目标群体
Translation: 为一些各种目的实体而挑选和接触的一些人，包括援助、招聘、信息传播、营销和研究实体接触。

Code: 13107
English Term: target setting
Definition: Establishing or determining environmental goals or objectives.
Chinese Term:目标设定
Translation: 建立或确定环境目标。

Code: 8301
English Term: tariff
Definition: A classified list or scale of charges made in any private or public business.
Chinese Term: 关税
Translation:分类名单或任何私人或公共事务提出指控的规模。

Code: 8307
English Term: tax
Definition: An amount of money demanded by a government for its support or for specific facilities or services, most frequently levied upon income, property or sales.
Chinese Term: 税收
Translation: 政府需求的一定数额的经费，为扶持或特定设施或服务，最常见的对收入财产或者销售所得进行征收。

Code: 8309
English Term: tax differentiation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 税差
Translation:

Code: 8312
English Term: tax law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government stipulating the sum of money and manner of collection it demands for governmental support, facilities and services, usually levied upon income, property, sales or other financial resources.
Chinese Term: 税法
Translation: 由政府指定的一个具有约束力的规则或规定，规定对金钱以收集的方式以满足政府机构的扶持、设施和服务，通常是征收收入、财产、销售或其它金融资源。

Code: 13251
English Term: tax on capital
Definition: A government imposed levy on the wealth or assets gained by an individual, firm, or corporation for the purpose of raising revenue to pay for services or improvements for the general public benefit.
Chinese Term: 资产税
Translation:政府实行征收或个人、公司或企业获得的资产或财富，为提高税收来支付服务或改善广大市民利益的目的。

Code: 13250
English Term: tax on consumption
Definition: A sum of money demanded from businesses by a government, usually based on a percentage of total sales of select goods and services, and generally passed on to consumers with each individual purchase.
Chinese Term: 消费税
Translation:政府要求企业的一笔钱，通常基于对选择商品和服务销售总额的百分比，且通常转嫁到消费者的每一个人购买中。

Code: 10120
English Term: tax system
Definition: A co-ordinated body of methods or plan of procedures for levying compulsory charges for the purpose of raising revenue.
Chinese Term: 税制
Translation: 一个为增加收入而强制收费的方法或程序计划的统筹机构。

Code: 8308
English Term: taxation
Definition: The act or result of a government requiring money for its support or for specific facilities or services.
Chinese Term: 课税,征税
Translation: 政府需要资金为扶持或特定设施或服务的行为或结果。

Code: 13253
English Term: taxation policy
Definition: The use of government tax and spendingpolicies to achieve desired macroeconomic goals. Accordingly, they involve discretionary efforts to adjust governmental tax and spending to induce changes in economic incentives and, hence, to stabilize fluctuations in aggregate demand.
Chinese Term: 税收政策
Translation: 政府的税收和支出政策，以达到理想的宏观经济目标。因此，它们努力酌情调整税收和政府开支，导致经济刺激的变化，以稳定总需求的波动。

Code: 8313
English Term: taxonomy
Definition: The branch of biology concerned with the classification of organisms into groups based on similarities of structures, origin, etc.
Chinese Term: 分类学
Translation:涉及对生物体的结构、起源等相似性为基础的成组分类的生物学的分支。

Code: 8319
English Term: teaching
Definition: The act of imparting knowledge or skill.
Chinese Term: 教学
Translation: 传授知识或技能的行为。

Code: 13311
English Term: teaching material
Definition: An article or device used to facilitate the learning process in an instructional setting.
Chinese Term: 教学材料
Translation:文章或设备在教学设置中用来促进学习的过程。

Code: 8321
English Term: teaching method
Definition: A procedure, technique or system with definite plans for instruction or imparting knowledge.
Chinese Term: 教学方法
Translation:有明确的计划的教学或传授知识的过程、技术或系统。

Code: 13053
English Term: technical information
Definition: Factual data, knowledge or instructions relating to scientific research or the development, testing, evaluation, production, use or maintenance of equipment.
Chinese Term: 技术信息
Translation: 事实数据，知识或指令或有关科研开发、测试、评价、生产、使用或维修设备

Code: 11498
English Term: technical instruction
Definition: The education, instruction, or discipline pertaining to or connected with the mechanical or industrial arts and the applied sciences.
Chinese Term: 技术说明
Translation: 与机械或工业艺术和应用科学相关的教育、教学或纪律。

Code: 11433
English Term: technical regulation
Definition: A government or management prescribed rule that provides detailed or stringent requirements, either directly or by referring to or incorporating the content of a standard, technical specification or code of practice.
Chinese Term: 技术法规
Translation: 政府或管理部门提供详细的规定或规则，严格的要求，直接或通过引用一个标准，技术规范或守则。

Code: 8326
English Term: technical regulation for dangerous substances
Definition: Technical Guideline for Dangerous Substances: technical rules for handling dangerous materials.
Chinese Term: 危险物质的技术法规
Translation: 危险物质的技术规范：为处理危险材料的技术规则。

Code: 12784
English Term: technological accident
Definition: An unexpected incident, failure or loss occurring through the application of practical or mechanical sciences to industry or commerce that poses potential harm to persons, property or the environment.
Chinese Term: 科技事故
Translation:通过科学的应用或机械工业或商贸活动构成潜在的危害人身，财产或环境的一个意外的事件，破坏或损失。

Code: 8330
English Term: technological change
Definition: Changing of industrial methods by introducing new technology.
Chinese Term: 科学技术进步
Translation: 通过引进新技术以改进工业方法。

Code: 8333
English Term: technological development
Definition:
Chinese Term: 技术开发
Translation:

Code: 8334
English Term: technological hazard
Definition: Any application of practical or mechanical sciences to industry or commerce capable of harming persons, property or the environment.
Chinese Term: 技术危害
Translation:任何对工业或商业中人，财产或环境造成伤害的实际应用或机械科学。

Code: 8337
English Term: technological process
Definition:
Chinese Term: 工艺过程
Translation:

Code: 8339
English Term: technology
Definition: Systematic knowledge of and its application to industrial processes; closely related to engineering and science.
Chinese Term: 工业技术
Translation:系统的知识，及其应用到工业生产过程中；与工程和科学密切相关。

Code: 8340
English Term: technology acceptance
Definition: The approval, favorable reception and ongoing use of newly introduced devices and systems, usually developed from recent advances in the engineering sciences or industrial arts.
Chinese Term: 科技接受
Translation: 批准，同意接受和持续使用新引进的设备和系统，通常从工程科学或工业艺术的最新进展开始发展。

Code: 8341
English Term: technology assessment
Definition: The systematic analysis of the anticipated impact of a particular technology in regard to its safety and efficacy as well as its social, political, economic, and ethical consequences.
Chinese Term: 技术评价
Translation: 对一个特定技术的预期影响进行系统的分析，关于其安全性和有效性以及其社会、政治、经济和道德后果。

Code: 8342
English Term: technology transfer
Definition: The transfer of development and design work: a) from a parent company to a subsidiary, perhaps in another nation where it will be paid for in repatriated profits or royalties; b) from one country to another as a form of aid to help promote development and sustainable growth. Many nations have made great progress on the strength of technology transfer.
Chinese Term: 技术转让
Translation:发展和设计工作的转让：a）从一个母公司到一个子公司，也许在另外一个地方将要为遣返利润或特许权使用费支付费用；b）从一国到另一国，作为一种援助形式以帮助促进发展和可持续增长。许多国家在对技术转让的强度也有很大进展。

Code: 8344
English Term: tectonics
Definition: A branch of geology dealing with the broad architecture of the outer part of the Earth, that is, the regional assembling of structural or deformation features, a study of their mutual relations, origin and historical evolution.
Chinese Term: 构造学
Translation: 处理地球外的广泛架构的一部分的地质学分支，即是区域组装结构或变形特征，他们的相互关系，起源和演化历史研究。

Code: 8347
English Term: telecommunications
Definition: The conveyance of images, speech and other sounds, usually over great distances, through technological means, particularly by television, telegraph, telephone or radio.
Chinese Term:电信
Translation: 通常通过技术手段，特别是电视、电报、电话或电台，远距离的运送图像，语音和其它声音。

Code: 4886
English Term: teleheating
Definition: The supply of heat, either in the form of steam or hot water, from a central source to a group of buildings.
Chinese Term: 远程供暖
Translation: 从一个中央源到建筑群，以蒸汽或热水的形式供热。

Code: 8350
English Term: telematics
Definition: The convergence of computing and communications technologies, thus the use of telephone or radio to link computers and the use of computers to send messages via telephone or radio links.
Chinese Term: 远程处理
Translation: 计算和通信技术的融合，如使用电话或无线电连接电脑和利用电脑通过电话或无线电发送邮件联系。

Code: 8351
English Term: telemetry
Definition: The use of radio waves, telephone lines, etc., to transmit the readings of measuring instruments to a device on which the readings can be indicated or recorded.
Chinese Term: 遥感勘测
Translation: 对无线电波，电话线路等使用，来传送测量仪器上的读数到可显示或记录读数的设备。

Code: 8353
English Term: television
Definition: The process, equipment or programming involved in converting a succession of audiovisual images into corresponding electrical signals that are transmitted by means of electromagnetic waves to distant receivers or screens, at which the signals can be used to reproduce the original image.
Chinese Term: 电视
Translation:涉及一系列视听图象转换成相应的电信号的设备或程序，此电信号是通过电磁波的传输手段传输到遥远的接收器或屏幕，信号可用于复制原始图像。

Code: 14875
English Term: television programme
Definition: A performance or production transmitted in audiovisual signals with electromagnetic waves.
Chinese Term: 电视节目
Translation: 用电磁波传播视听信号的表演。

Code: 12066
English Term: temperate climate
Definition: The climate of the middle latitudes; the climate between the extremes of tropical climate and polar climate.
Chinese Term: 温带气候
Translation: 中纬度地区的气候;热带气候和极地气候之间的气候。

Code: 8360
English Term: temperate ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in regions of or related to moderate climates, intermediate between tropical and polar zones and having distinct warm to hot summer seasons and cool to cold winter seasons.
Chinese Term: 温带生态系统
Translation: 一个生物群落及其非生物环境的区域或与温和的气候有关，热带和极地之间的中间地带，且具有独特的温暖到炎热的夏季，凉爽到寒冷的冬季。

Code: 8361
English Term: temperate forest
Definition: Mixed forest of conifers and broad-leaf deciduous trees, or mixed conifer and broad-leaf evergreen trees, or entirely broad-leaf deciduous, or entirely broad-leaf evergreen trees, found in temperate regions across the world; characterized by high rainfall, warm summers, cold winters occasionally subzero, seasonality; typically with dense canopies, understorey saplings and tall shrubs, large animals, carnivores dominant, very rich in bird species.
Chinese Term: 温带森林
Translation:针叶树和阔叶落叶树的混交林，或针叶林和阔叶常绿树木的混合林，或完全是全阔叶落叶，或完全是阔叶常绿树木，被发现在世界各地的温带地区；特点是高降雨量，夏季温暖，冬季寒冷偶尔零下，具有季节性；通常密集檐篷，林下幼树和高大的灌木，大型动物，食肉动物占统治地位，有非常丰富的鸟类物种。

Code: 8362
English Term: temperate woodland
Definition: Forest dominated by broad-leaved hardwoods, which occurs over large tracts in the mid-latitudes of Europe, N. America, and eastern Asia, but which is restricted in the southern hemisphere to Chilean Patagonia.
Chinese Term: 温带林地
Translation:主要由阔叶硬木组成的森林，大片位于中期的欧洲纬度地区，包括北美和亚洲东部，但在南半球智利的巴塔哥尼亚受到限制。

Code: 8366
English Term: temperature
Definition: A property that determines the direction of heat flow when an object is brought into thermal contact with other objects: heat flows from regions of higher to those of lower temperatures.
Chinese Term: 温度, 气温
Translation: 当一个对象被纳入与其他物体热接触时决定热流方向的一个属性，热量从更高的地区流向温度低的地区。

Code: 8367
English Term: temporary housing
Definition:
Chinese Term: 临时住房
Translation:

Code: 8369
English Term: temporary shelter
Definition: Simple facilities for asylum or provisional lodgings to individuals or groups in emergencies.
Chinese Term: 临时避难所
Translation:在紧急情况下，收容或作为临时住房提供给个人或团体的简单的设施。

Code: 8371
English Term: temporary storage
Definition: Any deposit or holdings of goods, materials or waste in a facility, container, tank or some other physical location for a brief or short time period.
Chinese Term: 暂存器
Translation:用于短期存储或者保持物品，材料或设施的废物的容器，罐或其它物理位置。

Code: 8379
English Term: teratogen
Definition: Substances causing formation of a congenital anomaly or monstrosity in the embryo.
Chinese Term: 致畸胎物
Translation: 物质导致胚胎形成一种先天性异常或畸形。

Code: 8376
English Term: teratogenesis
Definition: The process whereby abnormalities of the offspring are generated, usually as the result of damage to the embryonal structure during the first trimester of pregnancy, producing deformity of the fetus.
Chinese Term: 畸形生长
Translation:导致异形后代产生的过程，通常是由于在怀孕的头三个月胚胎结构受到破坏，导致胎儿畸形。

Code: 8377
English Term: teratogenesis screening
Definition:
Chinese Term: 畸胎发生筛选
Translation:

Code: 14330
English Term: teratogenic substance
Definition: Substances capable of causing abnormal development of the embryo and congenital malformations.
Chinese Term: 畸胎形成物质
Translation: 会导致胚胎发育异常和先天性畸形的物质。

Code: 8378
English Term: teratogenicity
Definition: The ability or tendency to produce anomalies of formation.
Chinese Term: 畸形形成性;致畸性
Translation: 形成异常的能力或倾向。

Code: 13340
English Term: termination of employment
Definition: The act or instrument by which the binding force of a contract is terminated, irrespective of whether the contract is carried out to the full extent contemplated or is broken off before complete execution.
Chinese Term: 雇佣终止
Translation:使得合同的约束力终止的行动或文书，无论合同是否进行了充分的考虑或完成了要执行的任务前被中止。

Code: 8380
English Term: terminology
Definition: The body of specialized words relating to a particular subject.
Chinese Term:术语学
Translation: 关于某个特定主题的机构的专业词汇。

Code: 8381
English Term: termite
Definition: A soft-bodied insect of the order Isoptera; individuals feed on cellulose and live in colonies with a caste system comprising three types of functional individuals: sterile workers and soldiers, and the reproductives. Also known as white ant.
Chinese Term: 白蚁
Translation:属于等翅目的一种软体昆虫，个体以纤维素为食，与包括三种职能的个体以种姓制度居住，三种职能个体为：工蜂和士兵和繁殖蚁。

Code: 10229
English Term: terraced garden
Definition:
Chinese Term: 平台园
Translation:

Code: 10233
English Term: terraced landscape
Definition: Landscape resulting from the method of cultivating land by cutting terraces or benches into slopes to create areas of flat land. The practice is common in mountainous areas where land is scarce and rainfall uncertain.
Chinese Term: 梯田景观
Translation: 将梯田或长凳削成斜坡，以创建单位土地面积，这种方法形成的景观。这种做法在地少，降雨不确定的山区比较常见。

Code: 8386
English Term: terrestrial area
Definition: Subdivisions of the continental surfaces distinguished from one another on the basis of the form, roughness, and surface composition of the land.
Chinese Term: 陆地地区
Translation: 大陆表面的行政划区在形式，粗糙度，表面组成的土地基础上彼此区别开来。

Code: 8387
English Term: terrestrial biological resource
Definition: Any source of supply derived from plants, animals or other wildlife inhabiting land or ground, which may be used by humans for food, clothes and other necessities.
Chinese Term: 陆地生物资源
Translation: 来自植物、动物或其它野生动物的栖息地或地面的供应源，这些可能作为人的粮食、衣服和其它必需品。

Code: 8388
English Term: terrestrial ecosystem
Definition: Any terrestrial environment, from small to large, in which plants and animals interact with the chemical and physical features of the environment.
Chinese Term: 陆域生态系统
Translation: 从小到大的任何陆地环境，植物和动物与环境的化学和物理功能特征。

Code: 10198
English Term: terrestrial environment
Definition: The continental as distinct from the marine and atmospheric environments. It is the environment in which terrestrial organisms live.
Chinese Term: 陆地环境
Translation: 有别于海洋和大气环境的大陆。它是陆地生物生活的环境。

Code: 10993
English Term: territorial community
Definition: An infrastructure, body of people or homogenous constituency that is physically situated in a localized exurban area.
Chinese Term: 地域社群
Translation: 位于城市远郊区的一个本地化的人或团体生活的基础设施。

Code: 10985
English Term: territorial government
Definition: An administrative body or system in which political direction or control is exercised over a designated area or an administrative division of a city, county or larger geographical area.
Chinese Term: 地区政府
Translation: 一个行政机构或制度，其政治方向或政治权利超过指定区域或超过一个城市，县或更大的地理区域的行政区划。

Code: 8398
English Term: territorial policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization, which determines the present and future use of each parcel of land in an area.
Chinese Term: 土地政策
Translation:由政府、企业或其它组织通过和奉行的行动方针，它确定当前和今后的每一块土地的利用。

Code: 8401
English Term: territory
Definition: An area that an animal or group of animals defends, mainly against members of the same species.
Chinese Term: 领土
Translation: 动物或动物群体防守的一个领域，主要是防御同一物种的成员。

Code: 8403
English Term: tertiary sector
Definition: The part of a country or region's economy that produces services or assets lacking a tangible and storable form.
Chinese Term: 第三产业部门
Translation: 一个国家或地区经济的一部分，生产服务或资产缺乏有形的和可存储的形式。

Code: 12609
English Term: tertiary treatment
Definition: The process which remove pollutants not adequately removed by secondary treatment, particularly nitrogen and phosphorus; accomplished by means of sand filters, microstraining, or other methods (referring to wastewater treatment).
Chinese Term: 三级处理
Translation: 去除污染物的过程中通过二级处理没有充分去除污染物，特别是氮、磷污染物的去除；由砂过滤器、微滤或其他方法完成（指污水处理）。

Code: 8405
English Term: test
Definition: To carry out an examination on (a substance, material, or system) by applying some chemical or physical procedure designed to indicate the presence of a substance or the possession of a property.
Chinese Term: 试验
Translation: 对（一种物质、材料或系统）利用一些化学或物理程序，进行测试，旨在表明一种物质或财产的存在。

Code: 8407
English Term: test animal
Definition: Animals on which experiments are conducted in order to provide evidence for or against a scientific hypothesis, or to prove the efficacy of drugs or the reaction to certain products.
Chinese Term: 试验用动物
Translation:在动物身上进行实验，为了支持或反对一个科学假说提供证据，或证明药物的疗效或对某些产品的反应。


Code: 8415
English Term: test organism
Definition: Any animal organism used for scientific research.
Chinese Term: 试验菌
Translation: 用于科学研究的任何动物机体。

Code: 8411
English Term: testing guideline
Definition:
Chinese Term: 测试指引
Translation:

Code: 8412
English Term: testing method
Definition:
Chinese Term: 检测方法
Translation:

Code: 1332
English Term: testing of chemicals
Definition: The determination of the efficacy and the toxicity of chemical products.
Chinese Term: 化学品检测
Translation: 对化学产品的疗效和毒性的鉴定。

Code: 5094
English Term: testing of materials
Definition: The complex of tests performed in order to ascertain the characteristics and behaviour of materials; they are classified in physical and chemical tests, mechanical tests and technological tests.
Chinese Term: 材料试验
Translation: 进行复杂的测试，目的是确定材料的特点和行为。分为物理和化学测试，机械测试和技术测试分类。

Code: 6319
English Term: testing of plant protection products
Definition: Tests performed to establish the effectiveness of pesticides under a wide variety of climatic and other environmental conditions; to assess the possible side effects on animals, plants and humans and to determine the persistence of pesticide residues in the environment.
Chinese Term: 植物保护品测试
Translation: 在各种各样的气候和其他环境条件下为确定农药的效力而进行的测试；评估可能出现的对动物、植物和人类的副作用，且确定环境中农药的残留量。

Code: 8422
English Term: textile
Definition: A material made of natural or man-made fibers and used for the manufacture of items such as clothing and furniture fittings.
Chinese Term: 纺织品
Translation:用于服装、家具配件产品生产的天然或人造纤维制成的材料。

Code: 8421
English Term: textile industry
Definition: Industry for the production of fabrics.
Chinese Term: 纺织业
Translation:生产织物的工业。

Code: 13190
English Term: textile plant
Definition: Plant producing material suitable to be made into cloths.
Chinese Term: 纤维植物
Translation:适合制造成布的工厂生产的材料。

Code: 8428
English Term: thallium
Definition: Bluish-white metal with tin like malleability, but a little softer; used in alloys.
Chinese Term: 铊
Translation:具有如锡一样的延展性的蓝白色金属，但有点偏软，在合金中使用。

Code: 8433
English Term: theory of money
Definition: A coherent group of general propositions about the supply and demand of money, interest rates, the flow of money's influence on the overall economy or the policies that should be adopted by institutions controlling the money supply.
Chinese Term: 货币理论
Translation: 对货币供应、需求和利率普遍认可的看法，对整体经济的货币流通的影响，认为应通过控制货币供应机构所采取的政策。

Code: 11087
English Term: theory of the environment
Definition: A structured simulation or explanation based on observation, experimentation and reasoning that seeks to demonstrate, characterize or explain the actions and interactions of the total surrounding conditions of a given system.
Chinese Term: 环境推测
Translation: 基于观察的结构化模拟或解释、实验和推理，寻求证明，描述或解释行为和总的围绕某一特定系统条件的相互作用。

Code: 8434
English Term: theory of the welfare state
Definition: A political conception of government in a capitalist economy where the state is responsible for insuring that all members of society attain a minimum standard of living through redistribution of resources, progressive taxation and universal social programs, including health care and education.
Chinese Term: 福利国家论
Translation: 在资本主义经济下政府的政治概念，国家为确保全社会所有成员达到最低生活标准，通过资源再分配，累进税和普遍的社会计划，包括卫生保健和教育。

Code: 8345
English Term: therapy
Definition: The treatment of physical, mental or social disorders or disease.
Chinese Term: 治疗
Translation:身体，心理或社会障碍或疾病的治疗。

Code: 13225
English Term: thermal equipment
Definition: Equipment related to the production of heat.
Chinese Term: 热工设备
Translation:生产热量的设备。

Code: 8440
English Term: thermal insulation
Definition: The process of preventing the passage of heat to or from a body by surrounding it with a nonconducting material.
Chinese Term: 热绝缘,绝热
Translation:  一个不导电材料在周围防止热量从一个机构通过的过程。

Code: 8442
English Term: thermal pollution
Definition: The excessive raising or lowering of water temperature above or below normal seasonal ranges in streams, lakes, or estuaries or oceans as the result of discharge of hot or cold effluents into such water.
Chinese Term: 热污染
Translation: 过量提高或降水温，以高于或低于溪流、湖泊或河口或海洋的正常性水温幅度，这是过热或过冷的污水排入以上水域的结果

Code: 8443
English Term: thermal power plant
Definition: A power-generating plant which uses heat to produce energy. Such plants may burn fossil fuels or use nuclear energy to produce the necessary thermal energy.
Chinese Term: 热电厂
Translation: 利用热能来产生能量的发电工厂。如植物可能燃烧化石燃料或用核能源来生产所需的热能。

Code: 8446
English Term: thermal sea power
Definition: The concept of utilizing the temperature differences of 20°C or more that occur between the surface of an ocean and its depths to achieve a continuous supply of power; this temperature difference may be found in the tropical regions of the world. Various small plants have been constructed to demonstrate the principle.
Chinese Term: 海洋热能
Translation: 利用发生海洋深处的20℃以上的温度差异，实现持续供电。这种温差可能会被发现在世界上的热带地区。各种小厂已建成以展示原则。

Code: 8447
English Term: thermal treatment
Definition: 1) Heating and cooling a metal or alloy to obtain desired properties or conditions. &#10;2) Treatment of hazardous waste in a device which uses elevated temperatures as the primary means to change the chemical, physical, or biological character or composition of the hazardous waste. Examples of thermal treatment processes are incineration, molten salt, pyrolysis, calcination, wet air oxidation, and microwave discharge.
Chinese Term: 热处理;热加工
Translation: 1）加热和冷却金属或合金以获得所需的性能或条件。2）使用温度升高为主要手段改变化学，物理或生物性质或危险废物的废物处理装置的危险。热处理过程的例子是焚化，熔融盐、热解、锻烧、湿空气氧化、微波放电。

Code: 8448
English Term: thermal water
Definition: Water, generally of a spring or geyser, whose temperature is appreciably above the local mean annual air temperature.
Chinese Term: 热水
Translation: 其温度明显高于当地年平均气温的泉水或间歇泉。

Code: 8450
English Term: thermodynamics
Definition: The branch of physics which seeks to derive, from a few basic postulates, relationships between properties of matter, especially those connected with temperature, and a description of the conversion of energy from one to another.
Chinese Term: 热力学
Translation: 物理学的分支，旨在能够从一些基本的假设，特别是与温度有关的物质的特性之间的关系，从一个形式描述的能量转换为另一种形式描述的能量转换。

Code: 8452
English Term: thermoselect process
Definition: Trade-Mark-Name for a thermic waste processing technology. Gasification is emerging as an alternative to combustion in the treatment and energy recovery from Municipal Solid Waste. Several innovative processes and demonstration plants are trying to achieve higher electrical efficiencies and lower emissions using this technology.
Chinese Term: 热选过程
Translation: 一放热废物处理技术的贸易商标名称。煤气化在处理和城市固体废物回收能源方面替代了燃烧。。几个创新的过程和示范工厂正在努力实现更高的发电效率和降低排放而采用这种技术。

Code: 8454
English Term: thesaurus
Definition: A compilation of terms showing synonyms, related terms and other relationships and dependencies, often used in a book format or as a standardized, controlled vocabulary for an information storage and retrieval system.
Chinese Term:同义词
Translation: 同义词的术语显示，有关的条款及与其它方面的关系和依赖性，往往用于书的格式使用或标准化，存储信息和检索系统控制词汇。

Code: 13026
English Term: thesis
Definition: A dissertation on a particular subject, in which original research has been done, usually by a candidate for a diploma or degree, or a proposition put forward for consideration, to be discussed and proved or maintained against objections.
Chinese Term:毕业论文
Translation: 某一个主题的学位论文，作为文凭或学位的一部分，经命题候选人提出审议，原始的研究已经完成，讨论和证明或对反对的维持。

Code: 12444
English Term: thickening
Definition: Any process beyond gravity sedimentation that increases the concentration of solids in sludge with or without the use of chemical flocculants.
Chinese Term: 增稠
Translation: 有或没有化学絮凝剂的使用，使物质超越重力沉降过程，从而增加了污泥中的固体浓度。

Code: 8470
English Term: threshold value
Definition: The maximum concentration of a particular substance to which a worker should be exposed in a given period of time.
Chinese Term: 阈值
Translation: 工作者应在一定时期内暴露的特定物质的最高浓度。

Code: 12084
English Term: thunderstorm
Definition: A storm caused by strong rising air currents and characterized by thunder and lightning and usually heavy rain or hail.
Chinese Term: 雷电交加的暴风雨
Translation: 强劲的上升气流引起暴风雨和雷电交加，通常的特点是大雨或冰雹。

Code: 8475
English Term: tidal power
Definition: Mechanical power, which may be converted to electrical power, generated by the rise and fall of ocean tides. The possibilities of utilizing tidal power have been studied for many generations, but the only feasible schemes devised so far are based on the use of one or more tidal basins, separated from the sea by dams (known as barrages), and of hydraulic turbines through which water passes on its way between the basins and the sea.
Chinese Term: 潮汐能
Translation: 由海洋潮汐的上升和下降产生的可转换为电力的机械动力。利用潮汐发电的可能性已经研究了许多代，但至今唯一可行的方案设计是基于一个或多个潮水盆地使用，脱离了海坝（称为和堰坝），且基于水轮机，水通过它们之间的盆地和沿海的路。

Code: 11958
English Term: tidal power station
Definition: Power station where the generation of power is provided by the ebb and flow of the tides. The principle is that water collected at high tide behind a barrage is released at low tide to turn a turbine that, in turn, drives a generator.
Chinese Term: 潮汐水力发电站
Translation:由低潮和潮汐流提供能量的发电站。原则就是在高潮时抽取海水在退潮时反过来被释放来转涡轮，以驱动发电机。

Code: 8478
English Term: tidal water
Definition: Any water whose level changes periodically due to tidal action.
Chinese Term: 潮水
Translation: 水由于潮汐作用的水平周期性变化。

Code: 8480
English Term: tide
Definition: The periodic rise and fall of the water resulting from gravitational interaction between the sun, moon and earth. In each lunar day of 24 hours and 49 minutes there are two high tides and two low tides.
Chinese Term: 潮汐
Translation: 由于太阳，月球和地球之间的引力相互作用，使得水的定期上升和降落。在每24小时49分钟内月球日有两次涨潮和两次退潮。

Code: 9348
English Term: timber
Definition: A wood, especially when regarded as a construction material.
Chinese Term: 木材
Translation: 甲木，特别是视为结构材料。

Code: 10698
English Term: timber forest
Definition: Forest whose trees are all in the adult stage and have reached the reproductive period.
Chinese Term: 木材林
Translation: 森林中的树木都在成熟阶段，并已达到的繁殖期。

Code: 8486
English Term: timber industry
Definition: Industry related with timber harvesting and processing。
Chinese Term: 森林工业
Translation: 与加工木材和采伐相关的产业。

Code: 12525
English Term: timber producing chain
Definition: All interrelated steps of the lumber manufacturing process including tree felling, the removal of tops, branches and bark, the piling and sawing of logs, and the transportation and loading of finished boards or other products.
Chinese Term: 木材生产链
Translation: 木材生产过程的相关步骤，包括砍伐树根、树枝和树皮，锯原木打桩以及运输和装载成品板或其他产品的负荷。

Code: 8487
English Term: time
Definition: 1) The dimension of the physical universe which, at a given place, orders the sequence of events. &#10;2) A designated instant in this sequence, as the time of day. Also known as epoch.
Chinese Term:时间
Translation: 1）物理宇宙的，在某个地点，命令的事件序列的层面。&#10;2）在此序列指定的瞬间，作为一天的时间。也称为时代。

Code: 10925
English Term: time allocation
Definition: The act of assigning various hours of one's day, week or year to particular activities, especially those falling within the categories of work and leisure.
Chinese Term: 时间分配
Translation: 在指派一个人的一天，一周或一年中不同时间的行为，特别是那些在工作和休闲类活动。

Code: 10932
English Term: time budget
Definition: Determining or planning for allotment of time in hours, days, weeks, etc.
Chinese Term: 时间预算
Translation: 以小时、天、周等为单位确定或规划时间。

Code: 8490
English Term: tin (element)
Definition: A metallic element, occurring in cassiterite, that has several allotropes; the ordinary malleable silvery-white metal slowly changes below 13.2°C to a grey powder. It is used extensively in alloys, especially bronze and pewter, and as a noncorroding coating for steel.
Chinese Term: 锡族元素
Translation: 金属元素，存在于锡石中，有几个同素异形体，一般可锻铸银白色金属，低于13.2℃缓慢的变化成灰色粉末。它广泛用于合金，特别是铜、锡，并作为钢铁不腐蚀的涂层。

Code: 8494
English Term: tissue
Definition: A part of an organism consisting of a large number of cells having a similar structure and function.
Chinese Term: 组织
Translation: 以某一种具有类似的结构和功能的细胞组成的生物体的一部分。

Code: 8495
English Term: titanium
Definition: A strong malleable white metallic element, which is very corrosion-resistant and occurs in rutile and ilmenite. It is used in the manufacture of strong lightweight alloys, especially aircraft parts.
Chinese Term: 钛
Translation: 一种坚韧性白色金属元素，非常耐腐蚀性且存在于金红石和钛铁中。它一般用于轻量级合金，尤其是飞机零部件的制造。

Code: 8496
English Term: titanium dioxide
Definition: A white, water-insoluble powder that melts at, and which is produced commercially from the titanium dioxide minerals ilmenite and rutile; used in paints and cosmetics.
Chinese Term: 二氧化钛
Translation: 一种白色，不溶于水的粉末，在1560°C时融化，存在于二氧化钛矿物，钛铁矿和金红石，用于油漆和化妆品工业。

Code: 8499
English Term: toad
Definition: Any anuran amphibian of the class Bufonidae, such as Bufo bufo of Europe. They are similar to frogs but are more terrestrial, having a drier warty skin.
Chinese Term: 蟾蜍
Translation: 蟾蜍类无尾两栖动物，如欧洲蟾蜍。它们类似于青蛙，但更多出现在陆地，且皮肤干燥。

Code: 8501
English Term: tobacco
Definition:
Chinese Term: 烟草
Translation:

Code: 8503
English Term: tobacco smoke
Definition: The grey, brown, or blackish mixture of gases and suspended carbon particles resulting from the combustion of tobacco. Tobacco smoke is inhaled and distributes toxins widely throughout the body and causes an enormous variety of illness among users and among non-smokers exposed to tobacco smoke.
Chinese Term: 烟草烟雾
Translation: 烟草燃烧产生的灰色、褐色、黑色或混合气体和悬浮微粒碳。烟草烟雾吸入和毒素广泛分布到全身，导致用户之间以及暴露于烟草烟雾的非吸烟者产生种类繁多的疾病。

Code: 8516
English Term: tornado
Definition: A rapidly rotating column of air developed around a very intense low-pressure centre. It is associated with a dark funnel-shaped cloud and with extremely violent winds (>300km/h) blowing in a counterclockwise spiral, but accompanied by violent downdraughts. The precise mechanisms are not fully understood but the following atmospheric conditions appear to be necessary for tornado development: a layer of warm moist air at low altitude; a layer of dry air at higher altitude with an inversion of temperature at about 1.000 m; a triggering mechanism, usually in the form of an active, intense cold front or solar heating of the ground which will create a vortex.
Chinese Term: 龙卷风
Translation: 空气柱围绕一个非常强烈的低气压中心快速旋转。它伴随着一个黑色的漏斗状云和极其暴力的逆时针螺旋吹的风（>三百公里每小时），但其伴随的暴力倒陷，确切机制尚未完全了解，但以下的大气条件似乎是为发展所需的龙卷风：在低海拔温暖潮湿的空气层；在海拔较高的层与逆温层约1000米的干燥空气；通过某种触发机制触发，通常形式猛烈，强烈的冷锋或地面将创建一个漩涡太阳能加热过程。

Code: 8519
English Term: tortoise
Definition: Any herbivorous terrestrial chelonian reptile of the family Testudinidae, of most warm regions, having a heavy dome-shaped shell and clawed limbs.
Chinese Term: 乌龟
Translation:属于龟科的爬行食草的陆龟动物，生活在温暖的地区，有一个沉重的圆顶形壳和四肢。

Code: 11779
English Term: total organic carbon
Definition: The amount of carbon covalently bound in organic compounds in a water sample.
Chinese Term: 总有机碳
Translation: 大量碳共价键束缚于有机物的水样中。

Code: 8521
English Term: total parameter
Definition: The sum of parameters that must be taken into account when assessing water quality (organoleptic factors, physico-chemical factors, toxic substances, microbiological parameters.
Chinese Term: 总参数
Translation: 当进行水的质量评估时，必须考虑的总参数（感官因素、物理、化学因素、有毒物质、微生物参数）

Code: 8522
English Term: tourism
Definition: The temporary movement of people to destinations outside their normal places or work and residence, the activities undertaken during their stay in those destinations and the facilities created to cater for their needs.
Chinese Term: 旅游
Translation: 暂时性移动的人，目的是要走出他们正常生活和工作的场所，活动开展期间，留在这些地点和设施以满足他们的所需。

Code: 10893
English Term: tourist attendance
Definition:
Chinese Term: 观光人数
Translation:

Code: 8525
English Term: tourist facility
Definition:All the services connected with tourism, especially when regarded as an industry. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term:旅游场所
Translation:所有与旅游有关的服务，尤其是被当作一个产业时。

Code: 11244
English Term: touristic activity management
Definition:The administration, promotion, organization and planning for the business or industry of providing information, transportation, entertainment, accommodations and other services to travelers or visitors.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term:旅游活动管理
Translation:为旅客或游客提供信息、交通、娱乐、住宿和其它服务的管理、促进、组织和计划。

Code: 10884
English Term: touristic route
Definition:An established or selected course for travel consisting, typically, of secondary roads with significant scenic, cultural, historic, geological or natural features and including vistas, rest areas, and interpretive sites matching the scenic characteristics of the course.&#10;(Source: GTT / RHW)
Chinese Term:旅游线路
Translation:一条已建立或选择的旅游路线，常由二级公路组成，公路有着景色优美的、文化的、历史的、地理的或自然的地物，包括景观、休息区和与线路景区特色相匹配的讲解场所。

Code: 10914
English Term: touristic unit
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term:旅游单位
Translation:无需定义

Code: 8527
English Term: touristic zone
Definition:Any section of a region which attracts travelers, often because of its scenery, objects of interest or recreational activities.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term:旅游区
Translation:某个地区吸引游客的任何部分，往往是因为它的景色、趣物或娱乐活动。

Code: 8537
English Term: toxic effect
Definition:A result produced by the ingestion or contact of poisonous materials.
Chinese Term:毒性作用
Translation:摄取或接触到有毒物质而产生的结果

Code: 8540
English Term: toxic metal
Definition:Metals (usually heavy metals) which interfere with the respiration, metabolism or growth of organisms.
Chinese Term:毒性金属
Translation:妨碍呼吸、新陈代谢或肌体生长的金属（通常是重金属）

Code: 11647
English Term: toxic pollution
Definition:Pollution by toxic substances that produce a harmful effect on living organisms by physical contact, ingestion, or inhalation.
Chinese Term:有毒污染
Translation:通过物理接触、摄取或吸入而对活生物体产生有害影响的有毒物质的污染

Code: 8545
English Term: toxic product
Definition:Any product which can cause acute or chronic injury to the human body or which is suspected of being able to cause disease or injury under some conditions.
Chinese Term:毒性产品
Translation:能对人体产生急性或慢性伤害，或被怀疑在某些条件下会导致疾病或伤害的任何产品。

Code: 8546
English Term: toxic substance
Definition:A chemical or mixture that may present a risk or injury to health or the environment.
Chinese Term:毒性物质
Translation:可能对健康或环境造成风险或伤害的一种化学品或混合物。

Code: 8547
English Term: toxic waste
Definition:Refuse posing a significant hazard to the environment or to human health when improperly handled; includes carcinogenic, mutagenic, teratogenic or phytotoxic wastes, or wastes harmful to aquatic species, or poisonous wastes.&#10;(Source: DEE / HMD)
Chinese Term:有毒废料
Translation:未被正确处理时会对环境或人体健康产生重大危险的废物，包括致癌的、致突变的、致畸的或药害的废物，或对水生物有害的废物或毒物的废弃物。

Code: 8538
English Term: toxicity
Definition:The degree of danger posed by a substance to animal or plant life.
Chinese Term:毒性
Translation:一种物质对动物或植物生命所造成的危险程度。

Code: 8539
English Term: toxicity of pesticides
Definition:
Chinese Term:杀虫剂的毒性
Translation:

Code: 8541
English Term: toxicological assessment
Definition:The process of characterizing and evaluating the inherent toxicity of a chemical substance, a poison, etc.
Chinese Term:毒理学评估
Translation:表征和评估一种化学物质、一种毒物等的固有毒性的过程

Code: 8542
English Term: toxicological testing
Definition:Test for the determination of the inherent toxicity of a chemical.
Chinese Term:毒理试验
Translation:为决定一种化学品的固有毒性而做的试验

Code: 8543
English Term: toxicology
Definition:A science that deals with poisons, their actions, their detection, and the treatment of the conditions they produce.
Chinese Term:毒理学
Translation:研究毒物、毒效、毒物检测和毒物产生条件处理的科学。

Code: 8549
English Term: toxin
Definition:A poisonous substance generally of plant or animal origin.
Chinese Term:毒素
Translation:通常指植物或动物源的一种有毒物质。

Code: 8554
English Term: trace element
Definition:Any of various chemical elements that occur in very small amounts in organisms and are essential for many physiological and biochemical processes.
Chinese Term: 微量元素
Translation:任何在生物体中出现的数量很少的、但对于很多生理和生化过程必不可少的不同的化学元素。

Code: 8556
English Term: trace material
Definition:1) Both metals and non-metals, essential for the metabolic processes of algae, invertebrates and vertebrates. Organisms that derive nearly all their energy via photosynthesis are especially dependent upon dissolved trace substances. 2) Impurities that are present at small but detectable levels. (Source: NATURE / GEMAIR)
Chinese Term: 微量物质
Translation:1）对于藻类、无脊椎动物和脊椎动物的新陈代谢过程必不可少的金属和非金属。对于几乎所有能量来源于光合作用的生物体尤其依赖于溶解的微量物质。2）在很小但可探测的级别出现的杂质。

Code: 5057
English Term: tracer
Definition:A minute quantity of radioactive isotope used in medicine or biology to study the chemical changes within living tissues. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 同位素指示剂
Translation:用于医学或生物学来研究生物组织化学变化的一分钟量放射性同位素。

Code:8559
English Term: tracheophyte
Definition:A large group of plants characterized by the presence of specialized conducting tissues (xylem and phloem) in the roots, stems, and leaves. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 导管植物、维管植物
Translation:一大群以根、茎和叶中存在专门导管组织（木质部和韧皮部）为特征的植物。

Code: 8562
English Term: tracking plan
Definition:A formulated or systematic method for following or tracing environmentally related issues or concerns.(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 跟踪计划
Translation:为从事或追查与环境相关的问题或关切的一种程序化或系统化的方法。

Code: 8569
English Term: trade (economic)
Definition:The act or the business of buying and selling for money. Mercantile or commercial business in general or the buying and selling, or exchanging, of commodities, either by wholesale or retail within a country or between countries. (Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 贸易（经济）
Translation:为获利进行的购买和销售的行为或企业。一般来说是指商品或商业企业，或一个国家内部或国家之间通过批发或零售方式的商品购买、销售或商品交换。

Code: 8572
English Term: trade (profession)
Definition:The act or process of buying, selling, or exchanging commodities, at either wholesale or retail, within a country or between countries.
Chinese Term: 贸易（专业）
Translation:一个国家内部或国家之间通过批发或零售方式购买、销售或交换商品的行为或过程。

Code: 8563
English Term: trade (services)
Definition:The act or process of buying, selling or exchanging goods and services at either wholesale or retail, within a country or between countries. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 贸易（服务）
Translation:一个国家内部或国家之间通过批发或零售方式购买、销售或交换商品和服务的行为或过程。

Code:11089
English Term: trade activity
Definition:
Chinese Term: 贸易活动
Translation:

Code: 8566
English Term: trade and consumption
Definition:The act or process of buying, selling, or exchanging commodities and the use of goods and services. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 贸易和消费
Translation:购买、销售或交换商品的行为或过程，以及商品和服务的使用。

Code: 8567
English Term: trade barrier
Definition:An artificial restraint on the free exchange of goods and services between nations. The most common types of trade barriers are tariffs, quotas, and exchange control. Such obstacles to trade are usually imposed by a country that wishes to protect domestic products in their home market against foreign competition, better its terms of trade, reduce domestic unemployment, or improve its balance-of-payments position. The raising of trade barriers by one country often provokes other nations position. Generally, the effect of a trade barrier is to reduce the volume of trade while increasing the domestic price of the protected good. Thus, it results in a relatively inefficient allocation of world resources and reduces the level of total world income and production. (Source: GREENW)
Chinese Term: 贸易壁垒
Translation:对国家间商品和服务的自由交换设置的人为的限制。贸易壁垒最常见的类型有关税、配额和外汇管制。这种贸易障碍，通常是由希望在国内市场保护其本国产品以对付国外竞争的国家来实行的，从而改善其贸易条件，减少国内失业，或改善其国际收支平衡状况。一个国家发起的贸易壁垒常会挑起其它国家的的立场。总的来说，贸易壁垒的后果是使国内受保护商品的价格上涨的同时还会减少贸易总量。因此，它会导致全球资源的一个相对低效的分配，会减少全球总体收入和产量的水平。
Code: 8570
English Term: trade impact on environment
Definition:Trade impacts on the environment can be direct, such as trade of endangered species, of natural resources, of natural products such as tropical timber, etc., or indirect, such as deforestation, loss of habitats, pollution from mining, from energy production, oil spills, global warming, etc., increases in transport infrastructures. (Source: NWFa)
Chinese Term: 贸易对环境的影响
Translation:贸易对环境的影响可以是直接的，如濒危特种、自然资源、自然产品（如热带木材）的贸易。也可以是间接的，如森林砍伐、栖息地丧失和因采矿、能源生产、石油泄漏、全球气候变暖等而引起的污染，以及交通运输基础设施的增加。

Code: 8571
English Term: trade policy
Definition:A course of action adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization, which promotes or determines the direction for the act or process of buying, selling or exchanging goods and services within a country or between countries. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 贸易政策
Translation:政府、企业或某些其它组织所采取和实施的一系列行动，旨在促进或决定在一个国家内部或国际间购买、销售或交换商品和服务的行为或过程的方向。

Code: 8573
English Term: trade relations
Definition:
Chinese Term: 贸易关系
Translation:

Code: 8574
English Term: trade restriction
Definition:Commercial discrimination that apply to the exports of certain countries but not to similar goods from other countries. (Source: USIA)
Chinese Term: 贸易限制
Translation:用于对某些国家出口商品的商业歧视，但不应用于其它国家的类似商品。

Code: 1596
English Term: trade waste
Definition:All types of waste generated by offices, restaurants, shops, warehouses and other such non-manufacturing sources, and non-processing waste generated at manufacturing facilities such as office and packaging waste. (Source: EED)
Chinese Term: 商业废料
Translation:所有由办公室、餐馆、商场、仓库和其它非制造业来源所产生的废料，和在生产设施中产生的非加工废料，如办公和包装废料。

Code: 8564
English Term: tradeable permit
Definition:Tradable emissions permits are used in an environmental regulatory scheme where the sources of the pollutant to be regulated (most often an air pollutant) are given permits to release a specified number of tons of the pollutant. The government issues only a limited number of permits consistent with the desired level of emissions. The owners of the permits may keep them and release the pollutants, or reduce their emissions and sell the permits. The fact that the permits have value as an item to be sold gives the owner an incentive to reduce their emissions. (Source: WEATHE)
Chinese Term: 可交易许可证
Translation:用于一个环境管理计划中的可交易的排放许可证，将被管理的污染源（最常见的为空气污染物）许可排放指定吨数的污染物。政府只发放符合排放理想水平的数量有限的许可证。许可证的所有者可以持有它并排放污染物，或减少其排放量和销售许可证。许可证像一件物品一样有价值而可被销售的事实给持有者以动力去减少其排放量。


Code: 8576
English Term: trades union
Definition:An organization whose members are wholly or mainly workers and whose principal purposes include the regulation of relations between workers and employers or employers' associations. (Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term:行业工会
Translation:一个组织，其成员全部或主要是工人，其主要用途包括工人和雇主或雇主组织之间关系的管理。

Code: 11345
English Term: traditional architecture
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 传统建筑学
Translation:无需定义。

Code: 8579
English Term: traditional culture
Definition:Learned, nonrandom, systematic behavior and knowledge transmitted over several generations, especially customs and beliefs originating before the advent of modern science and technology. (Source: ANT / OED)
Chinese Term: 传统文化
Translation:传承了几代的经验的、非随机的、系统的行为和知识。尤其指源于现代科技出现之前的风俗习惯和信仰。

Code: 8580
English Term: traditional health care
Definition:A system of treating and healing maladies based on cultural beliefs and practices handed down from generation to generation. (Source: FIT)
Chinese Term: 传统保健
Translation:世代相传的基于文化信仰和习俗的治疗和康复疾病的一套体系。
Code: 8582
English Term: traffic
Definition:1) The movement of vehicles, ships, aircraft, persons, etc., in an area or over a route. 2) The vehicles, persons, etc., moving in an area or over a route.
Chinese Term: 交通
Translation:1）在一个区域或一条线路上，车辆、船舶、航空器、人员等的运动。2）在一个区域或一条线路上运动的车辆、人员等。

Code: 8583
English Term: traffic accident
Definition:An unexpected incident with potential for harm occurring through the movement or collision of vessels, vehicles or persons along a land, water, air or space route. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 交通事故
Translation:在陆地、水路、空中或太空中由于船只、车辆和人员的运动或碰撞从而可能造成伤害的意外事故。

Code: 8585
English Term: traffic control
Definition:The organization of a more efficient movement of traffic within a given road network by rearranging the flows, controlling the intersections and regulating the times and places for parking. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 交通管制
Translation:在一个给定的公路网内通过重新安排流量、控制交叉路口和调整停车时间和位置，使交通更有效运作的组织活动。

Code: 8586
English Term: traffic control measure
Definition:Means of controlling the number and speed of motorvehicles using a road. (Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 交通管制方法
Translation:控制机动车在一条道路中运行数量和速度的方法。

Code: 8588
English Term: traffic emission
Definition:Exhaust gases and vapours emitted by motorvehicles. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 交通废气排放
Translation:机动车排放的废气和水蒸气。

Code: 8589
English Term: traffic engineering
Definition:The determination of the required capacity and layout of highway and street facilities that can safely and economically serve vehicular movement between given points. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 交通工程
Translation:对道路和街道设施所需容量和布局的决定，以便安全和经济地服务于给定两点间的车辆运行。

Code: 8590
English Term: traffic infrastructure
Definition:The fundamental facilities and systems used for the movement of vehicles, often provided through public funding. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 交通基础设施
Translation:用于车辆运行的基本设施和系统，通常是通过公共资金来供给。

Code: 8592
English Term: traffic jam
Definition:A number of vehicles so obstructed that they can scarcely move. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 交通堵塞
Translation:许多车辆被阻塞得几乎不能移动。

Code: 8595
English Term: traffic monitoring
Definition:The periodic or continuous surveillance or analysis of the movement of persons, objects, vehicles or other conveyances along an area of passage. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 交通监控
Translation:定期或连续监视或分析人员、物品、车辆或其他交通工具沿通行区的运动。

Code: 8596
English Term: traffic noise
Definition:Noise emitted by vehicles (heavy vehicles, cars and motorcycles, tyre/road interaction).
Chinese Term: 交通噪声
Translation:车辆（重型车辆、汽车、摩托车、轮胎/路面接触）所排放的噪声。

Code: 8597
English Term: traffic noise control
Definition:Traffic noise can be controlled by reduction at source, by fitting motor vehicles with silencers, by installing barriers which interrupt the direct path of sound or by insulating dwellings exposed to high noise levels, such as those related to motorways or airports. (Source: GRAHAWa)
Chinese Term: 交通噪声控制
Translation:交通噪声可通过减少噪声源来控制，通过给机动车安装消音器、通过建立障碍物来阻断声音的直接路径，或使处于高噪声水平的区域与外绝缘，例如与高速公路和机场相关的区域。

Code: 8598
English Term: traffic on water
Definition:The movement of boats and other vessels over any water route or area. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 水上交通
Translation:小船和其它船只在任何水路或水域中的运动。

Code: 13272
English Term: traffic regulation
Definition:A body of rules or orders prescribed by government or management for the safe and orderly movement of vehicles on land, sea or in the air. (Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 交通规则
Translation:由政府机构或管理制度所规定的一套规则或命令，以便交通工具在陆地、海上或空中安全有序地运行。

Code: 8599
English Term: traffic route
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 交通路线
Translation:无需定义。

Code: 6815
English Term: traffic route construction
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 交通路线建设
Translation:无需定义。

Code: 8606
English Term: train
Definition:A connected group of railroad cars, usu. pushed or pulled by a locomotive.
Chinese Term:火车
Translation:一组连接的火车车厢，通常由一个火车头推动或牵引。

Code: 8607
English Term: training
Definition:The process of bringing a person or a group of persons to an agreed standard of proficiency, by practice and instruction. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term:训练
Translation:通过实践和指导使一个人或一组人达到指定的熟练标准的过程。

Code: 8608
English Term: training centre
Definition:Place where people are prepared for a specific purpose. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term:训练中心
Translation:人们为达到某一特定目的而准备的场所。

Code: 8610
English Term: trajectory
Definition:The path described by an object moving in air or space under the influence of such forces as thrust, wind resistance, and gravity, especially the curved path of a projectile. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 轨迹
Translation:描述一个物体受到推力、风阻力和重力的影响在空中或空间中移动的路径，特别指发射体的曲线路径。

Code: 8621
English Term: transboundary pollution
Definition:Polluted air and water, or any other contaminated waste, that is generated in one country and transmitted to others. (Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 跨界污染
Translation:由一个国家产生而传送到其它国家的被污染的空气、水或其它污染物。

Code: 11199
English Term: transhumance
Definition:The seasonal migration of livestock to suitable grazing grounds. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term:季节性迁徙
Translation:牲畜季节性地迁徙到合适的牧场。

Code:8629
English Term: transition element
Definition:One of a group of metallic elements in which the members have the filling of the outermost shell to 8 electrons interrupted to bring the penultimate shell from 8 to 18 or 32 electrons; includes elements 21 through 29 (scandium through copper), 39 through 47 (yttrium through silver), 57 through 79 (lanthanum through gold), and all known elements from 89 (actinium) on. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 过渡元素
Translation:一类金属元素，这些元素最外层的8个电子未填满，导致倒数第二层有8到18或32个电子。这此元素包括21至29号元素（钪至铜），39至47号元素（钇至银），57至79号元素（镧至金），以及89号以后的所有已知的元素。

Code:8626
English Term: transitional arrangement
Definition:Rules, guidelines or an agreement on the process of changing the administration, structure or constitution of a government or organization. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 过渡性安排
Translation:改变一个政府或组织的管理、结构或章程的过程的规则、准则或协议。

Code:8627
English Term: transitional settlement
Definition:A small village, community or group of houses, or other shelters, usually located in a thinly populated area and existing there for only a short time. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 过渡性安置点
Translation:小村庄、社区、群体住房或其它住房，通常是在一个人口稀少地区内，且只存在很短的时间。

Code:8630
English Term: transpiration
Definition: The loss of water vapour from a plant, mainly through the stomata and to a small extent through the cuticle and lenticels. Transpiration results in a stream of water, carrying dissolved minerals salts, flowing upwards through the xylem. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 蒸腾作用
Translation:植物水蒸汽的损失，主要是通过气孔，少许通过角质层和皮孔。蒸腾作用会产生水流，它含有矿物质盐，并经由木质部位向上流。

Code:8650
English Term: transport (physics)
Definition: Transfer of mass, momentum, or energy in a system as a result of molecular agitation, including such properties as thermal conduction and viscosity. (Source: PITT)
Chinese Term: 传导（物理学）
Translation:系统中由于分子运动导致的质量、动量或能量的变化，变化包括热传导属性和粘度属性等。

Code: 13256
English Term: transport cost
Definition: The outlay or expenditure involved in moving goods from one place to another. (Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 运输成本
Translation:货物从一个地方移到另一个地方所涉及的费用或支出。

Code: 11472
English Term: transport law
Definition: Rules concerning the movement of goods or persons by sea, railway or road. (Source: WESTSa)
Chinese Term: 运输法
Translation:有关货物或人员从海上、铁路或公路进行移动的法规。

Code: 8648
English Term: transport planning
Definition: A programme of action to provide for present and future demands for movement of people and goods. Such a programme is preceded by a transport study and necessarily includes consideration of the various modes of transport. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 运输计划
Translation:为人员和货物移动的现有和未来的需求提供的行动方案。该方案实施之前应进行运输研究，且必须考虑到不同的运输方式。

Code: 13280
English Term: transport regulation
Definition: A rule or order prescribed by government or management for the safe and orderly conveyance of persons, materials or commodities over land, water or through the air. (Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 运输规章
Translation:政府或管理规定的规章和命令，以便人员、原料或商品经由陆路、水路或空中完成安全有序的运输。

Code: 8653
English Term: transport system
Definition: System of lines of movements or communication by road, rail, water or air. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 运输系统
Translation:经由公路、铁路、水路或空中的运动和交流活动。

Code: 8641
English Term: transportation
Definition: The act or means of moving tangible objects (persons or goods) from place to place. Often involves the use of some type of vehicle. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 交通运输
Translation:移动有形物体（人员或货物）从一个地方到另一个地方的行为或方法。往往涉及一些交通工具类型的使用。

Code: 8633
English Term: transportation business
Definition: Any commercial venture involved in the processes of conveying things or people from one place to another. (Source: RHW / OED)
Chinese Term: 运输业
Translation:将人员或货物从一个地方运输到另一个地方的过程中所涉及任何商业企业。

Code: 8634
English Term: transportation by pipeline
Definition: Transportation of gases, liquids or slurries by a system of tubes, of steel or plastics. Petroleum, natural gas and products derived from them are the main substances transported by pipelines. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 管道运输
Translation:通过铁管或塑料管道系统对气体、液体或浆状体的运输。石油、天然气和它们的衍生产品是通过管道运输的主要物质。

Code: 5116
English Term: transportation mean
Definition: Vehicles used for transferring people or goods from one place to another. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 运输工具
Translation:将人员或货物从一个地方运输到另一个地方的交通工具。

Code: 8639
English Term: transportation policy
Definition: Comprehensive statements of the objectives and policies which a local transport authority intends to pursue; it includes and estimate of transport expenditure, a statement of transport objectives, etc. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 交通政策
Translation:地方交通管理局希望实现的目标和政策的全面说明。它包括并评估交通开支、交通目标的说明等。

Code: 11517
English Term: transposition of directive
Definition:
Chinese Term: 移位指令
Translation:

Code:8655
English Term: trapping
Definition: To catch an animal in a mechanical device or enclosed place or pit. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 诱捕
Translation:在机械设备中或封闭的地方、或陷阱中来捕杀动物。

Code:8658
English Term: travel
Definition: Moving from one place to another generally by using a transportation mean. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 旅行
Translation:通常通过交通工具从一个地方移动到另一个地方。

Code:8659
English Term: travel cost
Definition: Expenditure of money or the amount of money incurred for journeying or going from one place to another by some mode of transportation. (Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 旅行费用
Translation:旅行或通过某种交通方式从一个地方到另一个地方而产生的花费或支出的金额。

Code:3578
English Term: treatment of gases
Definition: Gas is treated before it can be supplied to the marketplace. The extent to which gas needs to be processed will depend on its quality, the amount of associated impurities such as water, carbon dioxide and sulphur compounds, and the ultimate end-use for the gas. Common gaseous impurities found in natural gas are carbon dioxide and sulphur compounds. Both have an acidic reaction and are given the generic name 'acid gases'. These gases can be removed by a number of commercial processes, using either a physical or a chemical solvent. Physical solvent processes tend to be used where gas pressures are high and for gases with lower levels of propane and heavier hydrocarbons. (Source: SHELL)
Chinese Term: 气体处理
Translation:气体经过处理后才可以提供给市场。气体需要处理的程度，取决于其质量、相关的杂质（如水、二氧化碳和硫化合物）的含量和气体的最终用途。天然气中常见杂质气体为二氧化碳和硫化合物，两者均有酸性反应，被给出的通用名称为“酸性气体”。这些气体可以采用物理或化学溶剂进行一些商用处理。物理溶解过程往往用于气压高的地方，以及有着较低水平的丙烷和重碳氢化合物的气体。

Code:12430
English Term: treatment residue
Definition: Material left over from the treatment of any type of waste. (Source: DEE)
Chinese Term: 处理残余
Translation:对任何类型的废物处置后的残余物质。

Code:8663
English Term: treaty
Definition: An international agreement in writing between two states or a number of states. Treaties are binding in international law; some treaties create law only for those states that are parties to them. (Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 条约
Translation:两国或多国间的国际书面协定。条约具有国际法的制约力，而有些条约只对于缔约国而言是法律。

Code:8664
English Term: tree
Definition: Any large woody perennial plant with a distinct trunk giving rise to branches or leaves at some distance from the ground. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 树
Translation:任何大型的木质多年生的有明显主干的草本植物，其树枝或树叶与地面有一定距离。

Code:8667
English Term: tree nursery
Definition: An area where trees, shrubs, or plants are grown for transplanting, for use as stocks for budding and grafting. (Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 苗圃
Translation:乔木、灌木或草本植物种植移栽的区域，用于新进和嫁接树苗的储备库使用。

Code:8671
English Term: trend
Definition: The general drift, tendency, or bent of a set of statistical data as related to time or another related set of statistical data. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 趋势
Translation:一组与时间相关的统计数据集，或一组相关统计数据集的总流向、趋势或倾向。

Code:13333
English Term: trend of opinion
Definition: The general movement, drift or direction of change in a viewpoint collectively and purportedly held by a significant number of people. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 观点的趋势
Translation:观点集体改变的总体运动、趋势或方向，据称该观点为相当多的人所持有。

Code:11587
English Term: trial
Definition: A judicial examination and determination of issues between parties to action; whether they need issues of law or of fact. A judicial examination, in accordance with law of the land, of a cause, either civil or criminal, of the issues between the parties, whether of law or fact, before a court that has proper jurisdiction. (Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 审判
Translation:根据司法审查和当事人之间争论的结果来采取行动，无论他们是否需要提出法律的或事实的诉讼。在法庭做出裁决之前，依照当地法律，民事的或刑事的，针对当事人之间法律上或事实上的争论点而实施的司法审查。

Code:8673
English Term: triazine
Definition: Azines that contain three nitrogen atoms in their molecules. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 三氮六环
Translation:分子中包含三个氮原子的二氮六环。

Code:8675
English Term: trickle irrigation
Definition: Method in which water drips to the soil from perforated tubes or emitters. This irrigation technology is water conserving compared to flooding, furrows, and sprinklers. (Source: CNIE)
Chinese Term: 滴灌
Translation:水从穿孔管或发射器滴落到土壤中的方法。这种方法比起大量灌溉、沟渠灌溉和洒水等方式都要更节约水。

Code: 12280
English Term: trickling filter
Definition: A system of secondary sewage treatment which is similar to self-purification action of streams; it is more accurately a biological oxidizing bed; the effluent is placed on the stones in the bed and microorganisms present consume the solids as a food supply. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 滴滤池
Translation:一个二级污水处理系统，类似水流的自我净化行为；更准确地说是一个生物氧化床；污水被置于池床里的石头上，水中存在的微生物吸食固体物作为食物。
Code: 8679
English Term: trinity of principles
Definition: Three fundamental principles of environmental policy: precautionary principle, polluter pays-principle and cooperation principle. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 三位一体的原则
Translation:环境政策的三个基本原则：预报原则、污染者付费原则和合作原则。

Code: 8680
English Term: tritium
Definition: The hydrogen isotope having mass number 3; it is one form of heavy hydrogen, the other being deuterium. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 氚
Translation:质量数为3的氢同位素，它是重氢的一种形式，另一种形式是氘。

Code: 2474
English Term: trophic ecology
Definition: The study of the feeding relationships of organisms in communities and ecosystems. Trophic links between populations represent flows of organisms, organic energy and nutrients. Trophic transfers are important in population dynamics, biogeochemistry, and ecosystem energetics. (Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 营养生态学
Translation:对群落和生态系统中生物的摄食关系的研究。种群之间的营养关联代表着生物体、有机能量和营养素的流动。营养的迁移在种群动态、生物地球化学和生态系统热力学方面是很重要的。

Code: 8683
English Term: trophic level
Definition: Any of the feeding levels through which the passage of energy through an ecosystem proceeds; examples are photosynthetic plants, herbivorous animals, and microorganisms of decay. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 营养水平
Translation:通过生态系统的能量通道而收益的任何摄食水平，例子包括：光合植物、草食动物和衰变的微生物。


Code: 12067
English Term: tropical climate
Definition: A climate which is typical of equatorial and tropical regions, that is, one with continually high temperatures and with considerable precipitation, at least during part of the year. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 热带气候
Translation:赤道和热带地区的一种典型气候，也就是说，至少在一年的部分时间里，会持续高温和大量降水。

Code: 8685
English Term: tropical ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in the land and water of the equatorial region between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. (Source: TOE / ENC)
Chinese Term: 热带生态系统
Translation:一个生物群落相互作用的系统，它的非生物环境在北回归线和南回归线之间赤道地区的陆地和水中。

Code: 8687
English Term: tropical forest
Definition: A vegetation class consisting of tall, close-growing trees, their columnar trunks more or less unbranched in the lower two-thirds, and forming a spreading and frequently flat crown; occurs in areas of high temperature and high rainfall. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 热带森林
Translation:由高大、密集生长的树林组成的植物类，它们的柱状树干在大约较低的三分之二处分枝，从而形成一个铺展而常平的冠。它们常出现在高温和高降雨量的地区。

Code: 8686
English Term: tropical forest ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in forests found in tropical regions near the equator, which are characterized by warm to hot weather and abundant rainfall. (Source: TOE / DOE)
Chinese Term: 热带森林生态系统
Translation:在赤道附近热带地区的森林中的一个生物群落及其非生物环境相互作用的系统。它的特点是从温暖到炎热的天气，以及充沛的雨量。

Code: 13191
English Term: tropical plant
Definition: Plants growing in tropical areas in conditions of constant rain and high temperature. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 热带植物
Translation:多雨高温条件下的热带地区生长的植物。

Code: 8688
English Term: tropical rain forest
Definition: The most valuable and the richest ecosystem on Earth. It plays a critical part in the Earth's life support systems and house 50%, and possibly as much as 90%, of all the species on Earth. It is a key storehouse of foods, oils and minerals, and a source of ingredients that make up a range of medical treatments. It also represents home and livelihood for many people. However, more than half of the rainforests have disappeared, chopped down for valuable tropical hardwoods, or cleared to provide areas for cattle grazing or human habitation. The forests play an important part in climate patterns, and deforestation is thought to be responsible for 18% of global warming. Furthermore, as they disappear there is also an albedo effect - a damaging increase in the sunlight reflected - which affects wind and rainfall patterns. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 热带雨林
Translation:地球上最有价值和最丰富的生态系统，它是地球的生命支持系统的一个重要组成部分，它拥有地球上50%、可能达到90%这么多的物种。它是食品、油和矿物的主要仓库，是一系列医疗用品的配料成分的来源。它也是很多人赖以生存的物质基础。然而，超过半数的热带雨林已消失，宝贵的热带硬木被砍伐或被清除以提供空地来放牧或人类居住。森林在气候模式中发挥着重要的作用，森林的砍伐被认为要为18％的全球变暖负责。此外，它们的消失也会带来反照率效应，反射的阳光会破坏性地增加，这会影响风和降雨的模式。

Code: 8693
English Term: tropics
Definition: The region of the earth's surface lying between two parallels of latitude on the earth, one 23°27' north of the equator and the other 23°27' south of the equator, representing the points farthest north and south at which the sun can shine directly overhead and constituting the boundaries of the Torrid Zone. (Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 热带
Translation:位于地球两个纬度圈之间的地球表面区域，两个纬度圈一个是赤道以北23 ° 27'，另一个是赤道以南23 ° 27'，代表着太阳可以直射的最北端和最南端，它们构成了热带地区的边界。

Code: 8695
English Term: troposphere
Definition: The lowest of the concentric layers of the atmosphere, occurring between the Earth's surface and the tropopause. It is the zone where atmospheric turbulence is at its greatest and where the bulk of the Earth's weather is generated. It contains almost all the water vapour and aerosols and three-quarters of the total gaseous mass of the atmosphere. Throughout the troposphere temperature decreases with height at a mean rate of 6.5°C/km and the whole zone is capped by either an inversion of temperature or an isothermal layer at the tropopause. (Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 对流层
Translation:大气层的最低同心层，发生在地球表面和对流层顶之间。它是大气湍流最大和产生大部分的地球气候的区域，它包含了几乎所有的水蒸汽和气溶胶，占了大气质量的四分之三。在整个对流层，温度随着高度以6.5°C/km的均值率降低。整个区域被一个逆温层或一个对流层顶中的等温层所密闭。

Code: 8696
English Term: tropospheric ozone
Definition: Tropospheric ozone is a secondary pollutant formed from emissions of nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds and carbon monoxide. Ozone scars lung tissue, makes eyes sting and throats itch. It has been implicated as a contributor to forest dieback, damage to agricultural crops, etc. (Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 对流层臭氧
Translation:对流层臭氧是一种二次污染物，由氮氧化物、非甲烷挥发性有机化合物以及一氧化碳的排放而形成的。臭氧会创伤肺组织，使眼睛刺痛、喉咙发痒。它被认为是森林顶梢枯死、农作物受损等灾害的罪魁祸首。

Code: 8701
English Term: trunk road
Definition: A main road, especially one that is suitable for heavy vehicles. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 主干道路
Translation:一条主要的道路，尤其适合通行重型车辆。

Code: 8703
English Term: tumour
Definition: Any new and abnormal growth, specifically one in which cell multiplication is uncontrolled and progressive. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 肿瘤
Translation:任何新的和异常的生长物，特别指细胞增殖失控和渐进的生长物。

Code: 8704
English Term: tundra
Definition: An area supporting some vegetation (lichens, mosses, sedges and low shrubs) between the northern upper limit of trees and the lower limit of perennial snow on mountains, and on the fringes of the Antarctic continent and its neighbouring islands. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 苔原
Translation:在北部上限的树木和常年积雪的下限山区之间的，支持一些植被（如地衣，苔藓，莎草和低矮灌木）的一个地区，它位于南极大陆及邻近岛屿的边缘。

Code: 8711
English Term: turbidity
Definition: Cloudy or hazy appearance in a naturally clear liquid caused by a suspension of colloidal liquid droplets or fine solids. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 污浊
Translation:在一个自然透明液体中由于胶体液滴或细固体物的悬浮而出现的不透明的或模糊的外观。


Code: 8713
English Term: turbine
Definition: A fluid acceleration machine for generating rotary mechanical power from the energy in a stream of fluid. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 涡轮机
Translation:一种从流体能量中产生旋转机械动力的加速机械。

Code: 8719
English Term: tween-deck tanker
Definition: A sea-going vessel that includes space between two continuous floor-like surfaces or platforms, which is also designed for bulk shipments of liquids or gases. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 双层甲板油轮
Translation:在两个连续的类似地板的表面或平台之间有空间的一种远洋船只。

Code: 8720
English Term: twin-hull craft
Definition: Oil tank vessels provided with a double-hull to meet the regulatory safety requirements in oil transportation. Requirements include minimum values for depths and breadth of double bottoms. Also called double-hull tank vessel. (Source: PZa)
Chinese Term: 双体船
Translation:具备双船体以满足石油运输安全规范要求的油轮。这些要求包括深度值和双层底宽度值最小。它也叫做双体油轮。

Code: 8721
English Term: two-stroke engine
Definition: An internal combustion engine whose cycle is completed in two strokes of the piston. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 二冲程发动机
Translation:一种内燃发动机，其循环是通过两个活塞冲程完成。

Code: 8722
English Term: type of business
Definition: The class or category of an enterprise or organization involved in an economy. (Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 企业类型
Translation:与经济有关的企业或组织的分类或类别。

Code: 8723
English Term: type of claim
Definition: A class or category of interests or remedies recognized in law or equity that create in the holder a right to the interest or its proceeds, typically taking the form of money, property or privilege. (Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 要求类型
Translation:对于法律上的权益或赔偿，持有人有权获取利益或收益的股权的一种分类或类别，通常为货币、财产或特权的形式。

Code: 8724
English Term: type of management
Definition: The different, specific methods of business administration. (Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 管理类型
Translation:企业管理中不同的、特定的方法。

Code:13194
English Term: type of tenure
Definition: The manner in which land is owned and possessed, i.e. of title to its use. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 使用权类型
Translation:土地所有和拥有的方式，例如，所有权和使用权。

Code:9051
English Term: type of waste
Definition: A grouping by type of unusable material left over from any process. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 废料类型
Translation:在任何过程中残留的无法使用的原料，根据其类型进行分组。

Code:8727
English Term: typhoon
Definition: A severe tropical cyclone in the western Pacific. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 台风
Translation:西太平洋地区的一种强烈的热带气旋。

Code:8731
English Term: tyre
Definition: A rubber ring placed over the rim of a wheel of a road vehicle to provide traction and reduce road shocks. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 轮胎
Translation:放置在道路车辆的轮辋上以提供牵引和减少道路冲击的一种橡胶圈。

Code:8736
English Term: ultrafiltration
Definition: Separation of colloidal or very fine solid materials by filtration through microporous or semipermeable mediums. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 超滤
Translation:通过微孔或半透的媒介以过滤的方式对胶体或极细固体物质的分离。

Code:8739
English Term: ultrasound
Definition: Sound waves having a frequency above about 20,000 hertz. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 超声波
Translation:大约2万赫兹以上的高频声波。

Code:8742
English Term: ultraviolet radiation
Definition: The part of the electromagnetic spectrum with wavelengths shorter than light but longer than x-rays; in the range of 4-400 nm. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 紫外线
Translation:波长比光短、但比X射线长的电磁频谱的一部分；波长在4-400纳米范围内。


Code:8745
English Term: UNCED
Definition: United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1992. (Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 联合国环境与发展大会
Translation:联合国环境与发展大会，巴西里约热内卢，1992。


Code:8747
English Term: uncontrolled dump
Definition: Place where waste is left on the ground and not buried in a hole. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 未受控制的垃圾场
Translation:废料留置在地上而未埋藏于洞中的场所。

Code: 11649
English Term: underground disposal
Definition: The discharge, dumping or emission of wastes below the surface of the soil. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 地下处理
Translation:废料在土壤下的释放、倾倒或者排放。

Code: 14947
English Term: underground dump
Definition: Any subterranean or below-ground site in which solid, or other, waste is deposited without environmental controls. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 地下垃圾站
Translation:固体或其他废料未受环境管制而存放的隐蔽或地下的场所。

Code: 12656
English Term: underground quarry
Definition: Quarry located below the surface of the earth. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 地下采石场
Translation:位于地表面下的采石场。

Code: 14581
English Term: underground railway
Definition: An electric passenger railway operated in underground tunnels. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 地下铁路
Translation:在地下隧道运行的电动客运铁路。

Code: 8758
English Term: underground storage
Definition: Storage located underground designed to hold gasoline or other petroleum products or chemical solutions. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 地下储存
Translation:用于保存汽油或其他石油化工产品或化工溶剂的地下贮藏。

Code: 8760
English Term: underground train
Definition: A train for transportation of people, mostly beneath the surface of the ground, in order to lessen the traffic. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 地铁列车
Translation:为减轻交通压力，主要在地面下运行的运送人员的列车。

Code: 8761
English Term: underprivileged people
Definition: A segment of the population that does not have access to the rights or benefits granted to the rest of society, often because of low economic or social status. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 弱势群体
Translation:往往是因为经济或社会地位低而无法获得社会其它人所拥有的权利或利益的一部分人群。

Code: 8762
English Term: undertaking business
Definition: Any commercial activity, position or site associated with the preparation of the dead for burial and the management and arrangement of funerals. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 殡葬业
Translation:与埋葬死者的准备工作及处理和安排葬礼相关的任何商业活动、职业或场所。

Code: 8766
English Term: underwater outlet
Definition: Point of water disposal located below the sea surface. (Source: LANDYa)
Chinese Term: 水下排水口
Translation:位于海平面以下的排水口。

Code: 8768
English Term: unemployment
Definition: The condition of being without remunerative employment. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 失业
Translation:无工作报酬的状况。

Code: 8769
English Term: ungulate
Definition: Hoofed mammals, including the Artiodactyla and Perissodactyla. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 蹄类动物
Translation:有蹄的哺乳动物，包括偶蹄动物和奇蹄动物。

Code: 8776
English Term: United Nations
Definition: A voluntary association of around 180 state signatory to the UN charter (1945), whose primary aim is to maintain international peace and security, solve economic, social, and political problems through international co-operation, and promote respect for human rights.
Chinese Term: 联合国
Translation:约180个国家通过签署联合国宪章（1945）而成立的一个自愿性组织，主要目的是维护国际和平与安全，通过国际合作解决经济、社会和政治问题，并促进对人权的尊重。

Code: 8780
English Term: unleaded petrol
Definition: Petrol with a low octane rating, which has no lead additives in it and therefore creates less lead pollution in the atmosphere. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 无铅汽油
Translation:辛烷值低的汽油，它不含铅添加剂，因此对大气造成的铅污染较少。

Code: 14913
English Term: unsupervised image classification
Definition: Unsupervised classification is a kind of classification which takes place with minimum input from the operator; no training sample is available and subdivision of the feature space is achieved by identifying natural groupings of the measurement vectors. (Source: GEOG / YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 非监督图像分类
Translation:非监督分类是一种有最小算法输入的分类，它没有训练样本。通过确定度量向量的自然分组来实现对特征空间的划分。

Code: 8785
English Term: upbringing
Definition:
Chinese Term: 教养
Translation:

Code: 8789
English Term: Upper House
Definition: The body of a bicameral legislature comprising either representatives of member states in a federation or a select number of individuals from certain privileged estates or social classes. (Source: (Source: CIV / RHW)
Chinese Term: 上议院
Translation:一个两院制立法机关，包括在一个联邦中会员国代表或从某些特权阶层或社会阶层选出的一定数量的个人。

Code: 8791
English Term: uranium
Definition: A metallic element highly toxic and radioactive; used as nuclear fuel. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 铀
Translation:剧毒和有放射性的一种金属元素，可作为核燃料使用。

Code: 8794
English Term: urban action program
Definition: A planned, coordinated group of activities or services intended for improving urban centers in order to provide healthy and safe living conditions, efficient transport and communication, adequate public facilities and aesthetic surroundings. (Source: RHW / INP)
Chinese Term: 城市行动计划
Translation:为提供健康和安全的居住条件、有效的交通和通信、足够的公共设施和优美的环境，改善城市中心的一组有计划、协调的活动或服务。

Code: 8797
English Term: urban area
Definition: Areas within the legal boundaries of cities and towns; suburban areas developed for residential, industrial or recreational purposes. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 市区
Translation:在城市和城镇的法律界限内的区域，郊区发展为住宅，工业或娱乐用途。

Code: 11307
English Term: urban community
Definition: Body of people living in a town or city.
Chinese Term: 城市社区
Translation:住在城镇或城市的人群所组成的社群。

Code: 13121
English Term: urban concentration
Definition: A process in which an increasing proportion of a country's population is concentrated in urban areas. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 城市化集中
Translation:国家越来越大比例的人口逐步向城市地区集中的过程。

Code: 8801
English Term: urban decay
Definition: Condition where part of a city or town becomes old or dirty or ruined, because businesses and wealthy families have moved away from it. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 市区老化
Translation:由于企业和富裕的家庭已经搬离，一个城市或城镇的一部分变得破旧或肮脏或被毁坏。

Code: 8803
English Term: urban design
Definition: A plan, outline or preliminary sketch of, or for, a city or town. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 城市设计
Translation:一个城市或城镇的规划、大纲或初步草图。
Code: 8804
English Term: urban development
Definition: Any physical extension of, or changes to, the uses of land in metropolitan areas, often involving subdivision into zones; construction or modification of buildings, roads, utilities and other facilities; removal of trees and other obstructions; and population growth and related economic, social and political changes. (Source: CGP / AAG)
Chinese Term: 城市发展
Translation:大都市地区土地用途的自然扩展或变更，往往涉及到地区的细分，建筑物、道路、公用设施和其他设施的建造或改造，树木和其他障碍物的清除，人口的增长和相关的经济、社会和政治的变革等。

Code: 11308
English Term: urban development document
Definition: A written or printed text furnishing proposals or procedures for the improvement of living conditions, especially housing, for the inhabitants of a city or densely populated area. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 城市发展文本
Translation:改善城市生活条件的文本，主要包括为城市或人口密集地区的居民提供住房的建议和程序等内容。

Code: 8805
English Term: urban development law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by government to regulate public services and the competing claims of residential, commercial and industrial interests in municipal areas generally characterized by moderate to high population density. (Source: CGP)
Chinese Term: 城市发展法
Translation:政府机构制定的具有约束力的规则或规则体系，用来在以中高人口密度为特点的城市地区，规范公共服务和住宅、商业和工业利益的竞争性要求。

Code: 10130
English Term: urban ecology
Definition: Concept derived from biology: the city is viewed as a total environment, as a life-supporting system for the large number of people concentrated there, and within this people organize themselves and adapt to a constantly changing environment. Regarded as the same as human ecology. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 城市生态
Translation:来自生物学的概念：城市被视为一个整体环境，一个集中的大众生命支持系统，在其中人们自我组织和适应不断变化的环境。它被等同于人类生态学的概念。

Code: 10251
English Term: urban ecology charter
Definition: A graphic representation of a city area or other densely populated region, portraying the location of groups or select types of people in their environment through various geographic techniques. (Source: SOC / RHW)
Chinese Term: 城市生态图
Translation:一个城市地区或其他人口稠密地区的图形化表示，通过各种地理学技术描绘环境中的群体或选择特定类型人群的位置。

Code: 8807
English Term: urban ecosystem
Definition: Towns and cities viewed as ecosystems, having an input of matter and energy, recycling within the system, and an output of matter and energy into the surroundings. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 城市生态系统
Translation:城镇和城市被视为生态系统，包括物质和能量的输入，在系统内循环，以及物质和能量输出到周围环境。

Code: 8811
English Term: urban facility
Definition: Supply of essential services to the community, e.g. electricity, gas, water. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 城市设施
Translation:为城市社区提供的基本服务，如电、气和水。

Code: 8812
English Term: urban flows (resources)
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 城市流动（资源）
Translation:无需定义。

Code: 8815
English Term: urban green
Definition: The complex of private and public gardens in an urban area. (Source: DIFID)
Chinese Term: 城市绿地
Translation:城市区域中私人和公共花园的集合。

Code: 13100
English Term: urban habitat
Definition: The resulting effects and interrelationships of human population concentrations, the built environment, and the biophysical environment. (Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 城市栖息地
Translation:人口聚集、建筑环境和生物物理环境之间的相互关系，以及由此产生的影响。

Code: 8824
English Term: urban landscape
Definition: The traits, patterns and structure of a city's specific geographic area, including its biological composition, its physical environment and its social patterns. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 城市景观
Translation:城市中特定地理区域的特点、模式和结构，包括它的生物组成、物理环境和社会格局。

Code: 8826
English Term: urban management
Definition: The administration, organization and planning performed for cities or towns, particularly the process of converting farmland or undeveloped land into offices, businesses, housing and other forms of development. (Source: DOE)
Chinese Term: 城市管理
Translation:对城市或城镇执行的管理、组织和规划，特别指将农田或未开发的土地转化为办公室、企业、住房和其他开发用途的过程。

Code: 10092
English Term: urban noise
Definition: Noise emitted from various sources in an urban environment.
Chinese Term: 城市噪音
Translation:城市环境中各种来源所释放的噪声。

Code:8829
English Term: urban planning
Definition: The activity of designing, organizing or preparing for the future lay-out and condition of a city or town. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 城市规划
Translation:对于城市或城镇的未来布局和环境的设计活动、组织或准备工作。

Code: 11322
English Term: urban planning and development
Definition: The activity or process of preparing for the future arrangement and condition of an urban center, particularly the development of its physical lay-out, which would include the construction, reconstruction, conversion, alteration or enlargement of buildings and other structures, and the extension or use of undeveloped land. (Source: RHW / ELD)
Chinese Term: 城市规划和发展
Translation:为城市中心的未来安排和环境做准备的活动或过程，特别是物理布局开发，其中包括建造、重建、变更、房屋和其他建筑物的改建或者扩建，以及未开发土地的扩充或使用。

Code: 8832
English Term: urban policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization, which seeks to improve or develop cities or towns through land use planning, water resource management, central city development, policing and criminal justice, or pollution control. (Source: MGHME)
Chinese Term: 城市政策
Translation:政府、企业或其他组织采取和奉行的行动方针，其目的是通过土地使用规划、水资源管理、中心城市的发展、治安和刑事司法，或污染的控制来改善或发展城市或城镇。
Code: 11651
English Term: urban pollutant
Definition:
Chinese Term: 城市污染物
Translation:

Code: 8833
English Term: urban pollution
Definition: Pollution of highly populated areas mainly deriving from motor vehicles, industrial plants, combustion and heating plants, etc. (Source: GREMES)
Chinese Term: 城市污染
Translation:人口稠密地区的污染，主要来源于汽车、工厂、燃烧和供热设备等。

Code: 8834
English Term: urban population
Definition: The total number of persons inhabiting a city, metropolitan region or any area where the sum of residents exceeds a designated amount. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 城市人口
Translation:居住在城市、都市区的总人口，或居民总和超过指定数量的地区的总人数。

Code: 8839
English Term: urban renewal
Definition: A continuing process of remodelling urban areas by means of rehabilitation and conservation as well as redevelopment. Urban renewal programmes are generally undertaken by public authorities and concern those parts of the city which have fallen below current standards of public acceptability. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 城市重建
Translation:通过恢复和保护以及重建的手段，重塑城市地区的一个持续过程。市区重建计划一般是由城市的政府部门来承担，城市重建主要针对那些已经低于公众可接受的现行标准之下的城区。

Code: 8840
English Term: urban sanitation
Definition: The renovation or redevelopment of the decaying areas of cities by the demolition or up-grading of existing dwellings and buildings and a general improvement in environmental conditions. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 城市环境卫生
Translation:通过拆除或更新现有的住宅和建筑物以全面改善环境条件，对城市的衰败地区的翻修或重建。

Code: 8841
English Term: urban settlement
Definition: A collection of dwellings located in an urban area. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 城市定居
Translation:位于市区的住宅集合。

Code: 7625
English Term: urban sprawl
Definition: The physical pattern of low-density expansion of large urban areas under market conditions into the surrounding agricultural areas. Sprawl lies in advance of the principal lines of urban growth and implies little planning control of land subdivision. Development is patchy, scattered and strung out, with a tendency to discontinuity because it leap-frogs over some areas, leaving agricultural enclaves. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 城市扩张
Translation:市场条件下城市地区向周围农村地区进行低密度扩张的物理模式，扩张是以城市开发为主线推进，意味着对土地划分控制的较少规划。开发是零碎的、分散的、缓慢的，有不连续的倾向，因此它跨越过了一些地区，造成了农业上的飞地。

Code: 8843
English Term: urban stress
Definition: A state of bodily or mental tension developed through city living, or the physical, chemical, or emotional factors that give rise to that tension. (Source: MED)
Chinese Term: 城市压力
Translation:由于城市生活，或物理的、化学的、或情绪的因素引发紧张而形成的一种身体上或精神上的紧张状态。

Code: 8844
English Term: urban structure
Definition: The built-up components, the street system and the facilities which make up an urban unit. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 城市结构
Translation:构成一个城市单元的组件、街道系统和设施。

Code: 8845
English Term: urban study
Definition: The study and theory of building and other physical needs in cities or predominantly urban cultures. (Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 城市研究
Translation:有关城市建设和城市物质需要，以及占主导地位的城市文化的研究和相关理论。

Code: 8847
English Term: urban traffic
Definition: Movements of vehicles and people within a city. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 城市交通
Translation:城市中的车辆和人员的运动。

Code: 12284
English Term: urban wastewater
Definition: The liquid wastes deriving from domestic, commercial and industrial activities of an urban settlement. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 城市污水
Translation:城市居住区中家庭的、商业的和工业活动产生的液体废物。

Code: 8850
English Term: urban water
Definition: Water destined for private and public use in a town. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 城市用水
Translation:城镇中用于私人和公共用途的水。

Code: 8852
English Term: urban water supply
Definition: The distribution of water, including collection, treatment and storage, for use in a town, city or municipal area, and used generally for domestic and industrial needs. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 城市供水
Translation:用于一个城镇、城市或市区的水的分配，包括收集、处理和储存，一般用于家庭和工业需求。

Code: 8820
English Term: urbanisation
Definition: The state of being or becoming a community with urban characteristics. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 城市化
Translation:作为一个或成为一个带有城市特色的社区的状态。

Code: 8857
English Term: ursid
Definition: A family of mammals in the order Carnivora including the bears and their allies. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 熊科动物
Translation:食肉类哺乳动物的一个种族，包括熊和它们的同类。

Code: 8870
English Term: use of leisure time
Definition: Making use of free time to carry out recreational activities. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term:闲暇时间的利用
Translation:利用空闲时间来进行娱乐活动。

Code: 12341
English Term: use of waste as energy source
Definition:
Chinese Term:废料作为能源资源的利用
Translation:

Code: 12342
English Term: use of waste as material
Definition:
Chinese Term: 废料作为原料的利用
Translation:

Code: 12283
English Term: used water
Definition: Wastewater or utilized water from a home, community, farm or industry, which is often discharged after utilization. (Source: WRT / TOE)
Chinese Term: 已用水
Translation:从家庭、社区、农场或工业场所流出的废水或已利用过的水，往往是利用后排放的水。

Code: 8872
English Term: user advantage
Definition:
Chinese Term: 用户优势
Translation:

Code: 8875
English Term: utilisation of calorific value
Definition: Calorific value is the heat per unit mass produced by complete combustion of a given substance. Calorific values are used to express the energy values of fuels; usually these are expressed in megajoules per kilogram. They are also used to measure the energy content of foodstuffs; i.e. the energy produced when the food is oxidized in the body. The units here are kilojoules per gram. Calorific values are measured using a bomb calorimeter (apparatus consisting of a strong container in which the sample is sealed with excess oxygen and ignited electrically. The heat of combustion at constant volume can be calculated from the resulting rise in temperature). (Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term:热值的利用
Translation:热值是某一物质每单位质量完全燃烧所产生的热量。热值是用来表示燃料的能量值，通常是用每千克兆焦耳来表示。它们也可用来测量食品的能量值，即当食物在体内氧化所产生的能源，这里的单位是每克千焦。热值使用爆炸量热器（仪器有强大的容器，样品是用过量氧气密封而成，以电动方式点燃，导致的温度上升可计算出定容燃烧热量）来测量。

Code: 8877
English Term: utilisation of pesticides
Definition: Use of chemical or biological substances to deliberately kill unwanted plants or animals. (Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 杀虫剂的利用
Translation:使用化学的或生物物质来杀死不需要的植物或动物。

Code: 13216
English Term: vacuum industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 真空行业
Translation:

Code: 8887
English Term: valley
Definition: Any low-lying land bordered by higher ground; especially an elongate, relatively large, gently sloping depression of the Earth's surface, commonly situated between two mountains or between ranges of hills or mountains, and often containing a stream with an outlet. It is usually developed by stream erosion, but may be formed by faulting. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 山谷
Translation:与高地接壤的任何低洼地势的土地，特别指细长的、比较大的、平缓下陷的地球表面，通常位于两山之间、或丘陵、或山脉之间，通常有一条带出口的溪流。它通常是由溪流侵蚀形成，也可能由断裂活动形成。

Code: 8892
English Term: valued ecosystem component
Definition: An appraised, evaluated or estimated element or ingredient of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 重要生态系统要素
Translation:一个生物群落及其非生物环境的评价、评估或预测的元素或组成成分。

Code: 8893
English Term: vanadium
Definition: A silvery-white, ductile metal resistant to corrosion; used in alloy steels and as an x-ray target. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 钒
Translation:一种耐腐蚀的银白色韧性金属；可用于合金钢和用作X-射线目标。

Code: 8894
English Term: vandalism
Definition: The deliberate or wanton destruction of personal or public property caused by a vandal. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 恶意破坏行为
Translation:一个故意破坏者对个人或公共财产造成的蓄意或肆意破坏。

Code: 8895
English Term: vanished species
Definition: Species which have disappeared from an area because of adverse environmental conditions. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 消失的物种
Translation:由于不良环境条件而从一个地区消失的物种。

Code: 8898
English Term: vapour pressure
Definition: The partial pressure of water vapour in the atmosphere. For a liquid or solid, the pressure of the vapour in equilibrium with the liquid or solid. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蒸气压
Translation:大气层中水蒸汽的部分压，对于液体或固体，指与液体或固体均衡的蒸汽压。

Code: 3595
English Term: vapour recovery system
Definition: Gas feedback device: while refuelling gasoline vapors are sucked off and led back again into the storage tank. (Source: WASCH)
Chinese Term: 油气回收系统
Translation:油气反馈装置：汽油加油时，油气被吸入关闭和被导回进入储罐。

Code: 10646
English Term: variety collection
Definition: Assemblage of cultivated plants that are distinguished by any characteristics (morphology, physiology, etc.) significant for purposes of horticulture, agriculture or forestry. (Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 品种收集
Translation:以园艺、农业或林业的重要意义为目的，以任何特征（形态学，生理学等）为特点的栽培植物的组合。

Code: 8899
English Term: varnish
Definition: A transparent surface coating which is applied as a liquid and then changes to a hard solid; all varnishes are solutions of resinous materials in a solvent. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 油漆
Translation:一种透明的表面涂料。它作为液体而应用，然后变成硬固体，在溶剂中所有油漆都是树脂材料溶液。

Code: 14918
English Term: vector
Definition: One of the two major types of internal data organization used in GIS. Vector systems are based primarily on coordinate geometry and take advantage of the convenient division of spatial data into point, line, and polygon types. Vector structures are especially suited to storing definitions of spatial objects for which sharp boundaries exist or can be imposed. (Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 向量
Translation:地理信息系统中用于内部数据组织的两种主要类型之一，向量系统主要基于坐标几何，并利用将空间数据划分成点、线和多边形类型的便利性。向量结构特别适合于存在尖锐边界的，或可被施加的空间对象的存储定义。

Code: 8906
English Term: vector of human diseases
Definition: An agent or organism that acts as a carrier or transmitter of a human illness. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 人类疾病的载体
Translation:作为人类疾病的携带者和传播者的媒介或生物体。

Code: 14928
English Term: vector to raster
Definition: Methods to convert remotely sensed raster data to vector format. A number of vector-to-raster and raster-to-vector conversion procedures have been developed and introduced to current releases of many GIS packages. (Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 矢量到光栅
Translation:遥感栅格数据转换为矢量格式的方法，很多矢量到光栅和光栅到矢量的转换程序已经被开发，或引入到许多地理信息系统软件包的当前版本中。

Code: 8920
English Term: vegetable
Definition: Any of various herbaceous plants having parts that are used as food. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 蔬菜
Translation: 部分可作为食物的草本植物。

Code: 8909
English Term: vegetable cultivation
Definition: Cultivation of herbaceous plants that are used as food. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 蔬菜种植
Translation:用来食用的草本植物的种植。

Code: 8913
English Term: vegetable oil
Definition: An edible, mixed glyceride oil derived from plants (fruit, leaves, and seeds), including cottonseed, linseed, tung, and peanut; used in food oils, shortenings, soaps, and medicine, and as a paint drying oil. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 植物油
Translation:一种可食用的混合甘油酯油，来自于植物（果实、树叶、种子），包括棉籽，亚麻籽，桐籽，花生；用于食用油、起酥油、肥皂、医药和油漆干燥油。

Code: 8921
English Term: vegetable waste
Definition: Waste, comprised mainly of vegetable matter, which is capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. (Source: BHE)
Chinese Term:植物废料
Translation:主要包含植物物质的废料，它能被微生物所分解。

Code: 8922
English Term: vegetation
Definition: 1) The plants of an area considered in general or as communities, but not taxonomically; the total plant cover in a particular area or on the Earth as a whole. 2) The total mass of plant life that occupies a given area. (Source: ALL / MGH)
Chinese Term: 植被
Translation:1）一个地区总体的或群落的植物，但未被分类的；覆盖在某一特定地区或整个地球的所有植物。2）占据某一区域的植物体的总称。

Code: 8908
English Term: vegetation cover
Definition: Number of plants growing on a certain area of land. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 植被覆盖
Translation:在特定地区的土地上生长的许多植物。

Code: 8925
English Term: vegetation type
Definition: A community of plants or plant life that share distinguishable characteristics. (Source: PEM)
Chinese Term: 植被类型
Translation:有着共同区别特征的一群植物或植物生命。

Code: 8926
English Term: vehicle
Definition: Any conveyance in or by which people or objects are transported. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 交通工具
Translation:运送人或物体的任何运输工具。

Code: 8929
English Term: Vehicle exhaust gas
Definition: An aeriform fluid of fine particles suspended in air, produced and vented as a byproduct of the operation of wheeled machines or conveyances self-propelled by internal combustion engines. (Source: RHW / MHD)
Chinese Term: 汽车尾气
Translation:一种在空气中悬浮的微粒气体流体，由轮式机器或内燃机驱动的交通工具产生和排出的副产品。

Code: 8931
English Term: vehicle inspection
Definition: An official periodical examination of an automobile, truck, boat, airplane or other means of conveyance to determine compliance in design or operation with legal standards for safety or pollution emissions. (Source: DAM / RHW)
Chinese Term: 验车
Translation:对汽车、卡车、船、飞机或其他运输工具的一种官方定期检查，以确定是否符合设计或操作安全或污染排放的法律标准。

Code: 8934
English Term: vehicle manufacturing industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the manufacture and sale of equipment that conveys people, goods or materials by land, air or water. (Source: SIC)
Chinese Term: 汽车制造业
Translation:指一个经济行业，其企业从事制造和销售可由陆路、空中或水路来运送人员、货物或物资的设备。

Code: 8940
English Term: ventilation
Definition: The process of supplying or removing air, by natural or mechanical means, to or from any space; such air may or may not have been conditioned. (Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 通风
Translation:在某个空间通过自然或机械手段供应或去除空气的过程，这样的空气可以被调节也可以不被调节。

Code: 8944
English Term: vermin
Definition: Small animals and insects that can be harmful and which are difficult to control when they appear in large numbers. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 害虫
Translation:有害的以及大量出现时难以控制的小型动物和昆虫。

Code: 8946
English Term: vertebrate
Definition: Any chordate animal of the subphylum Vertebrata, characterized by a bony or cartilaginous skeleton and a well-developed brain: the group contains fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 脊椎动物
Translation:任何脊椎动物亚门的脊索动物，特点是有骨骼和软骨骨骼或一个发达的大脑：该动物群包含鱼类、两栖类、爬行类、鸟类和哺乳动物。

Code: 8951
English Term: veterinary medicine
Definition: The branch of medical practice which treats of the diseases and injuries of animals. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 兽医医学
Translation:治疗动物疾病和损伤的医学分支。

Code: 8955
English Term: viaduct
Definition: A long high bridge, usually held up by many arches, which carries a railway or a road over a valley or other similar area at a lower level. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 高架桥
Translation:一座长的高桥，通常由许多拱门支撑，跨越一个山谷，或其他类似的处于较低水平的地区上的铁路或道路。

Code: 8959
English Term: vibration
Definition: A periodic motion of small amplitude and high frequency, characteristic of elastic bodies. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 振动
Translation:一种小振幅、高频率、有弹性体特点的周期运动。

Code: 8964
English Term: video
Definition: A format or system used to record and transmit visual or audiovisual information by translating moving or still images into electrical signals. (Source: MVG)
Chinese Term: 视频
Translation:用于记录和通过将动态或静态图像转换成电信号来传输视觉或视听信息的一种格式或系统。

Code: 8967
English Term: village
Definition: A group of houses and other buildings, such as a church, a school and some shops, which is smaller than a town, usually in the countryside. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 乡村
Translation:一组房屋和其他建筑物，如教堂、学校和一些商店，它比一个小城镇要小，且通常是在农村。

Code: 8969
English Term: vinasse
Definition: The residual liquid from the distillation of alcoholic liquors, specifically, that remaining from the fermentation and distillation of beet-sugar molasses, valuable as yielding potassium salts, ammonia, etc.
Chinese Term: 酒精废液
Translation:蒸馏酒的酒精残留液体，具体而言，是从甜菜糖糖蜜的发酵和蒸馏中的残留，价值同高产钾盐、氨水等相当。

Code: 8974
English Term: virology
Definition: The study of submicroscopic organisms known as viruses. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 病毒学
Translation:对被称为病毒的亚微观生物的研究。

Code: 8976
English Term: virus
Definition: Submicroscopic agents that infect plants, animals and bacteria, and are unable to reproduce outside the tissues of the host. A fully formed virus consists of nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) surrounded by a protein and lipid (fat) coat. The nucleic acid of the virus interferes with nucleic acid-synthesizing mechanism of the host cell, organizing it to produce more viral nucleic acid. Viruses cause many diseases (e.g., mosaic diseases of many cultivated plants, myxomatosis, foot and mouth disease, the common cold, influenza, measles, poliomyelitis). Many plant viruses are transmitted by insects, some by eelworms. Animal viruses are spread by contact, droplet infection or by insect vectors and some are spread by the exchange of body fluids. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 病毒
Translation:感染植物、动物和细菌，并在宿主组织外无法复制的亚显微媒介。一个完全形成的病毒由蛋白质和脂质（脂肪）所包裹的核酸（DNA或RNA）组成，病毒的核酸干扰宿主细胞的核酸合成机制，促使它产生出更多的病毒核酸。病毒能引起很多疾病（例如，许多栽培植物的花叶病、多发粘液瘤病、手足口病、普通感冒，流行性感冒、麻疹、小儿麻痹症）。许多植物病毒是由昆虫传播的，有一些是由线虫传播的。动物病毒是通过接触、飞沫感染或昆虫媒介传播的，有些是由体液交换传播的。

Code: 8977
English Term: viscosity
Definition: Energy dissipation and generation of stresses in a fluid by the distortion of fluid elements; quantitatively, when otherwise qualified, the absolute viscosity. Also known as flow resistance. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 粘度
Translation:能源消耗和在流体中流体分子变形所产生的应力；从定量上来说，在一定条件下指的是绝对粘度，也称为流动阻力。

Code: 8986
English Term: vitamin
Definition: An organic compound present in variable, minute quantities in natural foodstuffs and essential for the normal processes of growth and maintenance of the body. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 维生素
Translation:在自然食品中出现的可变的、微量的有机化合物，它对于身体的成长过程和保养是必不可少的。

Code: 8987
English Term: viticulture
Definition: That division of horticulture concerned with grape growing, studies of grape varieties, methods of culture, and insect and disease control. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 葡萄种植
Translation:致力于葡萄种植、葡萄品种的研究、种植方法和病虫害控制的一个园艺学分支。

Code: 12611
English Term: vitrification
Definition: Formation of a glassy or noncrystalline material. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 玻璃化
Translation:一种玻璃状或非晶态材料的形成。

Code: 8990
English Term: vocabulary
Definition: A list of words or phrases of a language, technical field or some specialized area, usually arranged in alphabetical order and often provided with brief definitions and with foreign translations. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 词汇表
Translation:技术领域或某些专门领域中一种语言的词或短语的列表，通常按字母顺序排列，往往带有简单的定义和外语翻译。

Code: 8992
English Term: vocational training
Definition: A special training for a regular occupation or profession, especially, one for which one is specially suited or qualified.
Chinese Term: 职业培训
Translation:针对一种定期职业或专业的专门培训，特别是针对适合的或合格的人员。

Code: 8993
English Term: volatile organic compound
Definition: Organic compound readily passing off by evaporation. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 挥发性有机化合物
Translation:容易蒸发的有机化合物。

Code: 11794
English Term: volatile substance
Definition: A substance capable of readily changing from a solid or liquid form to a vapour; having a high vapour pressure and a low boiling point. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 挥发性物质
Translation:一种容易从固体或液体转变为气体的物质；具有高蒸汽压力和低的沸点。

Code: 8995
English Term: volatility
Definition: The property of a substance or substances to convert into vapor or gas without chemical change. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 挥发性
Translation:物质在无化学变化的情况下转换为蒸气或气体的性质。

Code: 8997
English Term: volcanic area
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 火山区
Translation:无需定义。

Code: 8999
English Term: volcanic eruption
Definition: The ejection of solid, liquid, or gaseous material from a volcano. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 火山喷发
Translation:火山中固体、液体或气体物质的喷射。

Code: 9003
English Term: volcanism
Definition: The processes by which magma and its associated gases rise into the crust and are extruded onto the Earth's surface and into the atmosphere. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 火山活动
Translation:岩浆和伴生气体上升进入地壳，并被挤压出地球表面，进入大气层的过程。

Code: 9004
English Term: volcano
Definition: A vent in the surface of the Earth through which magma and associated gases and ash erupt; also, the form or structure, usually conical, that is produced by the ejected material. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 火山
Translation:由岩浆、伴生气体和火山灰在地球表面的喷发所形成；此外，就其形状或结构而言，通常是由喷射出来的物质所形成的锥形。

Code: 12721
English Term: volcanology
Definition: The branch of geology that deals with volcanism. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 火山学
Translation:涉及火山的地质学分支。

Code: 10208
English Term: voluntary natural reserve
Definition: Area of national interest which is protected under the responsibility of its owner in order to safeguard wildlife, archeological and geological sites. (Source: UNIONa)
Chinese Term: 自发性自然保护区
Translation:基于国家利益，由地区的拥有者负责保护的区域，用以保障野生动物、考古和地质遗迹。

Code: 9010
English Term: voluntary work
Definition: Unpaid activities done by citizens often organized in associations, to provide services to others, particularly to elderly and poor people, handicapped, etc. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 志愿工作
Translation:市民以协会组织的方式所做的无酬活动，为别人提供服务，特别是老人和穷人、残疾人等。

Code: 13135
English Term: voting
Definition: The act of formally expressing an opinion or choice in some matter or for some candidate, usually by voice or ballot. (Source: CIV)
Chinese Term: 表决
Translation:对某个问题发表意见或对某个候选人进行选择的活动。通常通过语言表达或投票的方式。

Code: 9013
English Term: vulcanisation
Definition: A chemical reaction of sulfur (or other vulcanizing agent) with rubber or plastic to cause cross-linking of the polymer chains; it increases strength and resiliency of the polymer. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 硫化
Translation:硫（或其他硫化剂）与橡胶或塑料反应导致聚合物链交叉联接的一种化学反应；它增加聚合物的强度和弹性。

Code: 9015
English Term: vulnerable species  (IUCN)
Definition: Species which is likely to become endangered unless protective measures are taken. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 脆弱的物种(IUCN)
Translation:不采取保护性措施有可能变为濒危的物种。

Code: 9019
English Term: Wadden Sea
Definition: The Wadden sea is a shallow sea extending along the North Sea coasts of The Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. It is a highly dynamic ecosystem with tidal channels, sands, mud flats, salt marshes, beaches, dunes, river mouths and a transition zone to the North Sea, the offshore zone. Most parts of the Wadden Sea, in particular in The Netherlands and Lower Saxony, are sheltered by barrier islands and contain smaller or wider areas of intertidal flats. The present form of the Wadden Sea is the result of both natural forces and action by man. Twice a day, on average, 15 km3 of sea water enter the Wadden sea. With the water from the North Sea, large amount of sand and silt are imported which settle in places with little water movement. During low tides large parts of the Wadden Sea emerge. These so-called tidal flats cover about 2/3 of the tidal area and are one of its most characteristic features. Nowhere in the world can such a large unbroken stretch of tidal flats be found. They account for 60% of all tidal areas in Europe and North Africa. (Source: CWSS)
Chinese Term: 瓦登海
Translation:瓦登海是一个沿荷兰、德国和丹麦的北海海岸延伸的浅海。它是一个有着潮汐通道、沙滩、泥滩、盐沼、沙滩，沙丘、河口的高度动态的生态系统，它是通往北海的过渡区、近海区域。大部分地区的瓦登海，尤其是在荷兰和下萨克森州，由屏障岛屿所庇护，包含有潮间平地较小或较宽的地区。瓦登海目前的状态是由自然力量和人的行为所共同造成的。每日两次有平均15立方公里的海水进入瓦登海。随着从北海流来的水，大量的沙和淤泥进入，迁入到少量水流动的地方。退潮期间瓦登海大部分地区才会出现。这些所谓的潮汐带覆盖约2/3的潮汐面积，这也是其最典型的特征之一。在世界上其它地方还没有发现有如此大型的、不间断的延伸潮汐带。它占欧洲和北非地区所有潮汐面积的60％。

Code: 9022
English Term: wage system
Definition: System which compensates the employees with a fixed sum per piece, hour, day or another period of time, covering all compensations including salary.
Chinese Term: 工资制度
Translation:以每件、每小时、每天或其他一段时间内以固定数额给雇员支付报酬的制度，涵盖了包括工资在内所有薪酬。

Code: 9023
English Term: wall
Definition: A vertical construction made of stone, brick, wood, etc., with a length and height much greater than its thickness, used to enclose, divide or support. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 墙
Translation:以石料、砖瓦、木材等制成的垂直建筑物，它的长度和高度比它的厚度更大，用来包围、分割或支撑建筑体。

Code: 9028
English Term: war
Definition: A conflict or a state of hostility between two or more parties, nations or states, in which armed forces or military operations are used.
Chinese Term: 战争
Translation:两个或两个以上的当事人、民族或国家间的冲突或敌对状态，在其中会使用军队或军事行动。

Code: 13324
English Term: war victim
Definition: A person that suffers from the destructive action undertaken as a result of an armed conflict between two or more parties, particularly death, injury, hardship, loss of property or dislocation. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 战争受害者
Translation:因为两方或多方的武装冲突而遭受到破坏性损失的人。尤其是遭遇死亡、受伤、困苦、财产损失或混乱。

Code: 9032
English Term: warm-blooded animal
Definition: Animal which has a body temperature that stays the same and does not change with the temperature of its surroundings. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 常温动物
Translation:体温保持不变且不随周围环境温度而改变的动物。

Code: 9034
English Term: warning plan
Definition: A scheme or method of acting developed in advance to notify as quickly as possible the affected population of any sudden, urgent and usually unexpected occurrence requiring immediate action. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 预警计划
Translation:事先建立的行动计划或方法，以尽快通知受突发、紧急或意外事件的影响，需要立即采取行动的人群。

Code: 9035
English Term: warning system
Definition: Any series of procedures and devices designed to detect sudden or potential threats to persons, property or the environment, often utilizing radar technology. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 预警系统
Translation:任何用于检测针对人员、财产或环境的突发或潜在威胁的一系列的程序和设备，往往利用雷达技术。

Code: 9040
English Term: wastage
Definition: Extravagant or useless consumption or expenditures. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 浪费
Translation:过分的或无用的消费或支出。

Code: 9041
English Term: waste
Definition: Material, often unusable, left over from any manufacturing, industrial, agricultural or other human process; Material damaged or altered during a manufacturing process and subsequently left useless. (Source: HMD / OED)
Chinese Term: 废料
Translation:由任何制造业、工业、农业或其他人为加工所遗弃的，往往无法使用的材料；以及在制造过程中遭到损坏或改变，变为无用的材料。

Code: 9042
English Term: waste air
Definition: Exhaust or gaseous air given off by any industrial, manufacturing or chemical process. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废气
Translation:任何工业、制造业或化学过程中排出的气体。

Code: 9043
English Term: waste air purification (gas)
Definition:
Chinese Term: 废气净化
Translation:

Code: 9044
English Term: waste analysis
Definition: An investigation carried out to decide what arrangements are appropriate for dealing with different kinds of wastes. (Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 废料分析
Translation:通过调查，以决定如何对不同类型废料进行处理是恰当的。

Code: 9045
English Term: waste assimilation capacity
Definition:
Chinese Term: 废料的吸收能力
Translation:

Code: 14965
English Term: waste avoidance
Definition: All measures by which production and consumption processes are caused to generate less (or no waste), or to generate only those wastes that can be treated without causing problems.
Chinese Term:废料避免
Translation:使生产和消费过程产生更少废料（或无废料），或只产生那些不造成问题的、可以被处理的废料所采取的措施。

Code: 9048
English Term: waste balance
Definition: The inventory of all waste produced or recovered during a certain time period, classified by type and quantity. (Source: DOG)
Chinese Term: 废料平衡
Translation:在某一时间段内产生或回收的所有废料库存，按类型和数量分类。

Code: 9049
English Term: waste bin
Definition: A container for litter, rubbish, etc. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 垃圾桶
Translation:一种装垃圾、废品等的容器。
Code: 9052
English Term: waste charge
Definition: Imposed fee, expense, or cost for the management of refuse or unwanted materials left over from a manufacturing process. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废料处理费
Translation:为处理生产制造过程中遗留下来的垃圾或无用的材料而征收的费用、开支和成本。

Code: 9053
English Term: waste classification
Definition: The arrangement of unwanted materials left over from manufacturing processes or refuse from places of human or animal habitation into a variety of categories based on chemical and microbiological constituents or other common characteristics. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 垃圾分类
Translation:在化学和微生物成分或其他共同特点的基础上，将从人类或动物居住的地方所遗留下来的不需要的材料或垃圾，整理成各种类别。

Code: 9054
English Term: waste collection
Definition: The periodic or on-demand removal of solid waste from primary source locations using a collection vehicle and followed by the depositing of this waste at some central facility or disposal site. (Source: GSW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 废料收集
Translation:使用收集车将固体废物从最初来源地进行定期地或按需地搬移，随后将这种废料存放在一些集中设施或处理场。

Code: 9055
English Term: waste collection at source
Definition: The gathering and transporting of refuse from its place of origin. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 源头垃圾收集
Translation:从来源地进行的垃圾收集和运输。

Code: 9057
English Term: waste composition
Definition: The component material types, by percentage or weight, emanating from any source. (Source: AWD)
Chinese Term: 废料组成
Translation:从任何来源产生的废料中各种组成成分的百分比或重量。

Code: 9058
English Term: waste conversion technique
Definition: Any specialized procedure or method used to transform refuse from one state, form or chemical composition into another. (Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 废料转换技术
Translation:用于将废料从一种状态、形式或化学成分转换成另一种状态的程序或方法。

Code: 9059
English Term: waste degasification
Definition: The removal of gaseous components form waste. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 废料脱气
Translation:废料中气体成分的清除。

Code: 9062
English Term: waste disposal
Definition: The orderly process of discarding unwanted or useless material. (Source: GSW)
Chinese Term: 废料处置
Translation:丢弃废料中不需要的或无用的物质的有序过程。

Code: 9063
English Term: waste disposal act
Definition: Law that settles the rules concerning the disposal, recycling and treatment of wastes. (Source: DIZAMB)
Chinese Term: 废料处理法
Translation:解决有关废料的处置、回收利用和处理方面规则的法律。

Code: 9068
English Term: waste disposal charge
Definition: Imposed fee, expense, or cost for the action of removing or getting rid of refuse or unwanted materials left over from a manufacturing process. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废料处置费
Translation:为实施清除或去除生产制造过程中遗留下来的垃圾或无用材料的行动而征收的费用、开支和成本。

Code: 9065
English Term: waste disposal cost
Definition: The amount of money incurred for the action of removing or getting rid of refuse or unwanted materials left over from a manufacturing process. (Source: EFP / OED / TOE)
Chinese Term: 废料处置成本
Translation:为实施清除或去除生产制造过程中遗留下来的垃圾或无用材料的行动而花费的金额数量。

Code: 9067
English Term: waste disposal in the ground
Definition: The planned discharge, deposit or burial of refuse or other unserviceable material into the surface of the earth, as in a landfill. (Source: OED / LIV / CTC)
Chinese Term: 地面废料处置
Translation:有计划地排放垃圾或其他无用物质，存放或埋入地球表面，如垃圾填埋场中。

Code: 9069
English Term: waste dump
Definition: Area where wastes are deposited and burned. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term:废料堆
Translation:废料存放和焚烧的地方。

Code: 9071
English Term: waste dumping
Definition: The disposal of solid wastes without environmental controls. (Source: LANDYa)
Chinese Term:废料倾倒
Translation:固体废物未经过环境控制的处置。

Code: 9072
English Term: waste exchange
Definition: Exchange of the recyclable part of wastes. This procedure allows to minimize waste volume and the cost relating to waste disposal. The basis of waste exchange is the concept that "one company's waste is another company's raw material". (Source: ECOUK / ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 废料交换
Translation:废料中可循环再造部分的交换。这个过程的目的是尽量减少废料量和废料处理的有关费用。废料交换是基于“一个公司的废料是另一家公司的原料”的观念。

Code: 9073
English Term: waste export
Definition: Transporting unwanted materials, including those leftover from a manufacturing processes, refuse, or trash to other countries or areas for the conduct of foreign trade. (Source: TOE / MGHME)
Chinese Term: 废料出口
Translation:将有害材料，包括那些制造过程中的遗弃物、废物或垃圾，以外贸的行为运输到其他国家或地区。

Code: 9077
English Term: waste gas
Definition: Any unusable aeriform fluid, or suspension of fine particles in air, given off by a manufacturing process or the burning of a substance in a enclosed area. (Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废气
Translation:制造过程中或在一个封闭区域内物质燃烧所排出的任何无法使用的气状流体、或空气中的悬浮微粒。

Code: 14243
English Term: waste gas dispersion
Definition: The process of breaking up and producing a diffuse distribution of the unusable aeriform fluid or suspension of fine particles in air resulting from a manufacturing process or the burning of a substance in an enclosed area. (Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废气扩散
Translation:对制造生产过程或在一个封闭区域内物质的燃烧而排放的无法使用的气状流体、或空气中的悬浮微粒进行分解，和产生扩散分布的过程。

Code: 9078
English Term: waste gas emission
Definition: The direct or indirect discharge of exhaust gas into the atmosphere. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 废气排放
Translation:将废气直接或间接地排放到大气中。

Code: 9079
English Term: waste gas examination
Definition: Qualitative and quantitative analysis of exhaust gases emitted from vehicles, industrial plants, etc. in order to asses their composition. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 废气检查
Translation:对车辆和工厂等所排放的废气，为评估其组成而进行的定性和定量分析。

Code: 9080
English Term: waste gas reduction
Definition: Reduction of the quantity of gaseous emissions in the atmosphere, from motorvehicles, industrial and heating plants, etc. by the adoption of clean technologies, the effectiveness of process operations, the improvement of fuel quality and the installment of chimney stacks high enough to ensure the dispersion of gases. (Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 减少废气
Translation:通过采用清洁技术、有效运用操作过程、改善燃料质量和为确保气体的扩散而使用足够高的烟囱，使得从机动车、工业和采暖设备等排放到大气中的气体排放量减少。

Code: 9082
English Term: waste glass
Definition: Discarded material from the glass manufacturing process or from used consumer products made of glass. (Source: GMR)
Chinese Term: 废玻璃
Translation:来自于玻璃生产过程中或旧的玻璃消费品中的废弃物质。

Code: 9083
English Term: waste gypsum
Definition: By-product of the wet limestone flue gas desulphurisation process. (Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 废石膏
Translation:石灰石湿法烟气脱硫工艺的副产品。

Code: 9085
English Term: waste heat
Definition: Heat derived from the cooling process of electric power generating plants and which can cause thermal pollution of water courses, promoting algal bloom. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 余热
Translation:来自于电力发电厂冷却过程中的热量，它可以造成水道的热污染，引发赤潮。


Code: 9086
English Term: waste heat charge
Definition: The release of heat generated as a byproduct from industrial or power generation processes. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 余热释放
Translation:作为工业或发电过程中的副产品而产生的热量释放。

Code: 9087
English Term: waste heat utilisation
Definition: Waste heat applications include space heating and refrigeration in urban areas, thawing of ice-bound seaways, agricultural use to stimulate growth and to extend the growing season and in aquaculture to stimulate the growth of algae, shellfish, and other potential marine food sources. (Source: PZ)
Chinese Term: 余热利用
Translation:余热的应用，包括城市地区的空间加热和制冷、解冻冰封航道、农业方面的运用以刺激生长和延长生长季节、以及水产业中的应用以刺激藻类、贝类及其它潜在海洋食物资源的生长。

Code: 9088
English Term: waste importation permit
Definition: An authorization, license or equivalent control document issued by a government agency that approves bringing in refuse or unwanted materials left over from a manufacturing process from foreign countries. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 废料进口许可证
Translation:政府机构发布的授权、许可或等效控制文件，批准从国外引进生产制造过程中产生的废料或无用的材料。

Code: 9090
English Term: waste incinerator
Definition: Establishment where waste is burnt. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 垃圾焚烧炉
Translation:垃圾焚烧的设备。

Code: 9008
English Term: waste income
Definition: The total amount of refuse or unusable material that enters a process or system. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 废料输入
Translation:进入一个过程或系统的废料或不可用物质的总量。

Code: 9091
English Term: waste legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the disposal of unwanted materials left over from a manufacturing process or the refuse from places of human or animal habitation. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 废料立法
Translation:政府规定的具有约束力的规则，以规管生产制造过程中遗留下来的有害材料，或从人类或动物栖息地中产生的垃圾。

Code: 9095
English Term: waste minimisation
Definition: Measures or techniques, including plans and directives, that reduce the amount of wastes generated. Examples of waste minimisation are environmentally-sound recycling and source reduction practices. (Source: TOE / DEE)
Chinese Term: 废料最少化
Translation:减少废料产生量的措施或技术，包括计划和指示。废料最少化的例子是对环境无害废料的回收利用和减少污染源等做法。

Code: 9096
English Term: waste minimisation potential
Definition: The capability of measures or techniques that reduce the amount of refuse or unwanted materials that is generated, particularly during industrial production processes. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 废料最少化的潜力
Translation:指减少垃圾和有害物质产生量的措施或技术的能力，特别是在工业生产过程中。

Code: 9098
English Term: waste oil
Definition: Oil arising as a waste product of the use of oils in a wide range of industrial and commercial activities, such as engineering, power generation and vehicle maintenance and should be properly disposed of, or treated in order to be reused. (Source: GRAHAW / DEE)
Chinese Term: 废油
Translation:在广泛的工业和商业活动中，如工程、发电及车辆维修中，所产生的应妥善处理以便重复使用的废品油。

Code: 9099
English Term: waste paper
Definition: Newspapers, magazines, cartons and other paper separated from solid waste for the purpose of recycling.
Chinese Term: 废纸
Translation:从固体废物中分离的用于回收的报纸、杂志、纸箱及其他纸类。

Code: 9103
English Term: waste processing industry
Definition:
Chinese Term: 废料处理业
Translation:

Code: 9105
English Term: waste reclamation
Definition: The process of collecting and separating wastes in preparation for reuse. (Source: GSW)
Chinese Term: 废料回收
Translation:收集及分离废料以备再使用的过程。

Code: 9106
English Term: waste recovery
Definition: The process of obtaining materials or energy resources from waste. (Source: EED)
Chinese Term: 废料利用
Translation:从废料中获取原料或能源资源的过程。


Code: 9107
English Term: waste recycling
Definition: A method of recovering wastes as resources which includes the collection, and often involving the treatment, of waste products for use as a replacement of all or part of the raw material in a manufacturing process. (Source: GRT)
Chinese Term: 废料再循环
Translation:一种废料资源回收的方法，包括作为生产过程中原材料的全部或部分替代品的废品的收集、而且往往涉及到废品的处理。

Code: 9108
English Term: waste reduction
Definition: Practices that reduce the amount of waste generated by a specific source through the redesigning of products or patterns of production or consumption. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 减少废料
Translation:通过重新设计产品或生产、消费模式，减少某个特定源产生的废料量的做法。

Code: 9110
English Term: waste removal industry
Definition: The aggregate of commercial enterprises primarily concerned with eliminating or getting rid of refuse from places of human or animal habitation or of unwanted materials left over from a manufacturing process. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 废料清除业
Translation:指致力于对来源于人类或动物的居住地的垃圾，或是生产过程中遗留下来有害物质进行消除或去除的商业企业的总和。

Code: 9116
English Term: waste sorting
Definition: Separating waste into different materials, such as glass, metal, paper, plastic, etc. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 废料分类
Translation:将废料分离成不同的材料，如玻璃、金属、纸张、塑料等。

Code: 12318
English Term: waste sorting unit
Definition: Centralized recycling centres to which waste materials are brought and where they are separated. (Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 废料分类单位
Translation:废料被收集并分离的集中回收中心。

Code: 8077
English Term: waste statistics
Definition: Determination of the quantity and character of the wastes discarded by a community, by spot sampling procedure. (Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 废料统计
Translation:通过现场取样程序，对社区丢弃的废料数量和性质的测定。

Code: 9118
English Term: waste storage
Definition: Temporary holding of waste pending treatment or disposal. Storage methods include containers, tanks, waste piles, and surface impoundments. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 废料贮存
Translation:临时贮存待处理的废料。贮存方法包括容器、油罐、废物堆、蓄水池。

Code: 9119
English Term: waste transport
Definition: Transportation of wastes by means of special vehicles. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 废料运输
Translation:利用专用车辆的方式运输废料。

Code: 9121
English Term: waste treatment
Definition: Any process or combination of processes that changes the chemical, physical or biological composition or character of any waste or reduces or removes its harmful properties or characteristics for any purpose. (Source: HMD)
Chinese Term: 废料处理
Translation:改变任何废料的化学、物理或生物成分或性质，或减少、消除其有害性质或任何有害特性的过程或过程的组合。

Code: 12285
English Term: waste treatment effluent
Definition: Partially or completely treated water or waste water flowing out of a waste treatment plant. (Source: DEE)
Chinese Term: 废料处理污水
Translation:流出废料处理厂的部分或完全处理的水或废水。

Code: 9123
English Term: waste treatment plant
Definition: Place where waste material is treated to make it reusable or so it may be disposed of safely. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 废料处理厂
Translation:废料经处理、使其可重复使用或因而可以被安全处置的场所。

Code: 9125
English Term: waste use
Definition: The incorporation of wastes into natural or artificial cycles, mainly in order to recover secondary raw materials or energy.
Chinese Term: 废料利用
Translation:将废料并入到自然的或人工的循环中，主要是为了恢复再生原料或能源。

Code: 9126
English Term: waste volume
Definition: The total amount of refuse or unusable material produced at any source. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 废料量
Translation:任何来源所产生的废料或无法使用的材料的总数量。

Code: 9127
English Term: waste water
Definition: Used water, or water that is not needed, which is permitted to escape, or unavoidably escapes from canals, ditches, reservoirs or other bodies of water, for which the owners of these structures are legally responsible. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 废水
Translation:允许流出或不可避免地从运河、沟渠、水库或其它水体中流出的用过的水或不需要的水，这些废水的所有者对其负法律责任。

Code: 9128
English Term: waste water charge
Definition: Imposed fee, expense, or cost for the management of spent or used water that contains dissolved or suspended matter from a home, community farm, or industry. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废水费
Translation:为管理来自家庭、社区农场、或工业中使用过的水中可溶物或悬浮物而征收的费用、开支或成本。

Code: 9129
English Term: waste water discharge
Definition: The flow of treated effluent from any wastewater treatment process. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 废水排放
Translation:来自任何废水处理过程中的已处理过的流出物。

Code: 9130
English Term: waste water disposal
Definition: Collection and removal of wastewater deriving from industrial and urban settlements by means of a system of pipes and treatment plants. (Source: MANCOS)
Chinese Term: 废水处理
Translation:通过包含管道和污水处理厂的系统对工业和城市居民产生的废水进行收集和清除。

Code: 9133
English Term: waste water legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the outflow and disposal of spent or used water from a home, community, farm or industry that contains dissolved or suspended matter. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 废水立法
Translation:由政府制定的具有约束力的规则或规则体，以管理从家庭、社区、农场或工业中流出的含有溶解物或悬浮物的废水或已使用过的水的流出和处理。
Code: 9135
English Term: waste water load
Definition: The amount of spent or used water, often containing dissolved and suspended matter, that is found in a stream or some other body of water. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 废水负荷
Translation:指含有溶解物和悬浮物废物的或已使用过的水的总量，这些水常见于河流或其它水体中。

Code:3842
English Term: waste water pollution
Definition: The impairment of the quality of some medium due to the introduction of spent or used water from a community or industry. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 废水污染
Translation:由于社区或工业中的废水或已使用过的水的引入而导致的某些媒介物的质量减损。

Code:9136
English Term: waste water purification
Definition: Processing of waste water for reuse. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 废水净化
Translation:废水再利用的处理过程。

Code:9138
English Term: waste water quality
Definition: The state or condition of spent or used water that contains dissolved or suspended matter from a home, community farm or industry. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废水质量
Translation:从家庭、社区、农场或工业中流出的含有溶解物或悬浮物的废水或已使用过的水的状况。

Code:9139
English Term: waste water reduction
Definition: The act or process of lessening the volume of used or spent water that is discharged from homes, businesses or industries. (Source: RHW / FFD / TOE)
Chinese Term: 减少废水
Translation:减少从家庭、商业或工业中排放已使用过的水或废水的行为和过程。

Code:9140
English Term: waste water sludge
Definition: The removed materials resulting from physical, biological and chemical treatment of waste water. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 废水污泥
Translation:废水进行物理的、生物的和化学的处理所产生的移除物。

Code:9141
English Term: waste water statistics
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 废水统计
Translation:无需定义。

Code:9143
English Term: waste water treatment
Definition: Any process to which wastewater is subjected which would remove, or otherwise render harmless to human health and the environment, its constituent wastes. (Source: WWC / WQA)
Chinese Term: 废水处理
Translation:清除废水中的废料成分，使其无害于人类健康和环境的任何过程。

Code:9144
English Term: waste water treatment plant
Definition: Plant where, through physical-chemical and biological processes, organic matter, bacteria, viruses and solids are removed from residential, commercial and industrial wastewaters before they are discharged in rivers, lakes and seas. (Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 废水处理厂
Translation:通过物理、化学和生物过程，在住宅，商业和工业废水排入河流、湖泊和海洋之前对有机物、细菌、病毒和固体进行清除的工厂。

Code:9074
English Term: waste-fed heating and power plant
Definition: Heating and power production plant where fuel is provided from refuse. (Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 废料燃料热电厂
Translation:从废料中提取燃料的暖气和电力的生产厂。

Code:9075
English Term: waste-fed heating plant
Definition: Heating plant where fuel is provided from refuse. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 废料燃料供热厂
Translation:从废料中提取燃料的暖气生产厂。

Code:9076
English Term: waste-fed power station
Definition: Power station that functions with refuse-derived fuel. (Source: PARCORa)
Chinese Term: 废料燃料发电厂
Translation:从废料中提取燃料的发电厂。

Code:9132
English Term: wastewater from trade
Definition: Liquid or waterborne wastes polluted or fouled by commercial operations. (Source: ISEP / DEE)
Chinese Term: 商业废水
Translation:商业经营所污染的液体或水性废物。

Code:9232
English Term: water (geographic)
Definition: The liquid that forms streams, lakes, and seas, and issues from the ground in springs. (Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 水（地理）
Translation:形成溪流、湖泊和海洋，并从地下泉水流出的液体。

Code:9242
English Term: water (substance)
Definition: Common liquid (H2O) which forms rain, rivers, the sea, etc., and which makes up a large part of the bodies of organisms. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 水（物质）
Translation:形成雨，河流，海洋等的普通液体（H2O），它占了生物体的很大一部分。

Code: 12277
English Term: water aeration
Definition: Addition of air to sewage or water so as to raise its dissolved oxygen level. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 水充气
Translation:通过在污水或水中增加空气含量，提高溶氧水平。

Code: 9147
English Term: water analysis
Definition: Study of the chemical, physical and biological properties of water. (Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 水质分析
Translation:对水的化学、物理和生物性质的研究。

Code: 9151
English Term: water body
Definition: Any mass of water having definite hydrological, physical, chemical and biological characteristics and which can be employed for one or several purposes. (Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 水体
Translation:有明确的水文、物理、化学和生物特征，并可被应用于一个或多个目的的任何规模的水。

Code: 9153
English Term: water bottom
Definition: The floor upon which any body of water rests. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水底
Translation:任何水体都依赖其上的基底。

Code: 12107
English Term: water catchment protection
Definition: Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken to prevent or reduce harm to the environmental integrity of drainage areas used to catch water, such as reservoirs or basins. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 集水区保护
Translation:为防止或减少水资源破坏，对蓄水的流域（如水库或水池）环境的完整性采取的预防措施、程序或设备。

Code: 9157
English Term: water collection
Definition: The catching of water, especially rain water, in a structure such as a basin or reservoir. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 水收集
Translation:在一个结构体（如流域或水库中），对水（特别是雨水）的收集。

Code: 9159
English Term: water conservation
Definition: The protection, development and efficient management of water resources for beneficial purposes. (Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 水利
Translation:为了利用水资源，对水资源的保护、发展和有效管理。

Code: 9160
English Term: water consumption
Definition: The utilization patterns and quantities entailed in a community or human group's use of water for survival, comfort and enjoyment. (Source: ODE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 用水量
Translation:一个社区或人群用以生存、舒适和享受所必需的用水方式和数量。

Code: 12214
English Term: water corrosivity
Definition: Complex series of reactions between the water and metal surfaces and materials in which the water is stored or transported. The corrosion process is an oxidation/reduction reaction that returns refined or processed metal to their more stable ore state. With respect to the corrosion potential of drinking water, the primary concerns include the potential presence of toxic metals , such as lead and copper. (Source: WILKES)
Chinese Term: 水的腐蚀性
Translation:水和金属表面及储存或运输水的材料之间的复杂的系列化学反应。腐蚀过程是一个氧化/还原反应，它返回提炼的或加工的金属矿石的更稳定的状态。至于饮用水的腐蚀可能性，首要关注的问题包括有毒金属（如铅和铜）的潜在存在。

Code: 11063
English Term: water cost
Definition: The value or the amount of money exchanged for the production and sustained supply of water. (Source: EFP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 水成本
Translation:对水的生产和持续供应所需的价值和金额。

Code: 12893
English Term: water damage
Definition: Water damage can be caused by flooding, severe storms, tidal waves, seismic seawaves, storm surges, etc. (Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 水损害
Translation:水损害可能会由洪水、严重的暴风雨、海啸、地震海浪、风暴潮等造成。

Code: 9164
English Term: water demand
Definition:
Chinese Term: 水需求
Translation:

Code: 12254
English Term: water demineralisation
Definition: The removal of minerals from water by chemical, ion-exchange, or distillation procedures. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水去除矿物质
Translation:通过化学、离子交换、或蒸馏程序去除水中的矿物质。

Code: 12165
English Term: water desalination
Definition: Any mechanical procedure or process where some or all of the salt is removed from water. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 水去盐化
Translation:去除水中的部分或全部盐的任何手工程序或过程。

Code: 9165
English Term: water distribution system
Definition: The system of pipes supplying water to communities and industries. (Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 配水系统
Translation:对社区和工业供水的管道系统。

Code: 9166
English Term: water endangering
Definition: Can be caused by a variety of means, e.g. farm pollution from animal wastes and silage liquor (liquors from green leaf cattle food which has had molasses added to promote fermentation and preservation; they are highly polluting and can be a seasonal cause of fish deaths in small streams), leachate from landfill sites, and spoil heaps, solvent discharge to sewers or to land and inadequate sewage treatment works. (Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 水危害
Translation:可能由各种方式造成，如各种动物废弃物和青贮酒（出自家畜食用绿叶的酒，已加入糖蜜促进发酵和保护，它们是高度污染，也可能是在小溪内鱼类死亡的季节性原因）引起的农场污染、垃圾填埋场的渗滤液，和煤矸石的堆积，溶剂排放到下水道或土地以及污水处理厂处理能力的不足。

Code: 9168
English Term: water erosion
Definition: The breakdown of solid rock into smaller particles and its removal by water. As weathering, erosion is a natural geological process, but more rapid soil erosion results from poor land-use practices, leading to the loss of fertile topsoil and to the silting of dams, lakes, rivers and harbours. There are three classes of erosion by water. a) Splash erosion occurs when raindrops strike bare soil, causing it to splash, as mud, to flow into spaces in the soil and to turn the upper layer of soil into a structureless, compacted mass that dries with a hard, largely impermeable crust. b) Surface flow occurs when soil is removed with surface run-off during heavy rain. c) Channelized flow occurs when a flowing mixture of water and soil cuts a channel, which is then deepened by further scouring. A minor erosion channel is called a rill, a larger channel a gully. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 水侵蚀
Translation:坚石被水细分成更小的颗粒和被搬移。由于风化，侵蚀是一种自然地质过程，但更快速的侵蚀主要来自不良的土地使用办法，导致肥沃的土地表层的流失和水坝、湖泊、河流和港口的淤积。水的侵蚀可分为三类：a）当雨滴冲击裸露的土壤会发生溅击侵蚀，会使之如泥土般地飞溅，流入土壤中的空间，土壤上层会变成一个无结构、压缩的团块，用坚硬的、基本不透水的地壳来干燥。b）大雨时土壤随地表径流移动时会发生表面流。c）当水和土壤的混合流开切一条渠道时会发生渠道流，它会通过进一步的冲刷而变深。一个小的渠道被称为细沟，更大的渠道被称为沟壑。

Code: 9169
English Term: water extraction
Definition: Pumping of water for different purposes (i.e. agriculture, land reclamation, domestic and industrial use, etc.). (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 水提取
Translation:抽水用于不同目的（如农业、土地复垦、家庭和工业用途等）。

Code: 9171
English Term: water flea
Definition: Fresh-water branchiopod crustaceans characterized by a transparent bivalve shell. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水蚤
Translation:淡水鳃足甲壳类动物，特点是有一个透明的双壳。

Code: 9176
English Term: water for agricultural use
Definition: Water used in agriculture for irrigation and livestock. Livestock watering is only 1 percent of the total water withdrawal for agricultural use. Of all functional water uses, irrigation is the largest agricultural use of water. (Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 农业用水
Translation:农业中用于灌溉和畜牧业的水。畜牧业用水只有农业总用水量的百分之一。在所有功能性用水中，灌溉用水占有最大的农业用水比重。

Code: 9178
English Term: water for consumption
Definition: Consumptive water use starts with withdrawal, but in this case without any return, e.g. irrigation, steam escaping into the atmosphere, water contained in final products, i.e. it is no longer available directly for subsequent use. (Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term:消耗用水
Translation:消耗用水始于回收，但在这种情况下，没有任何回收，例如灌溉、散发到大气中的蒸汽、在最终产品中所包含的水，也就是说，它不再是直接供以后使用的水。

Code: 9180
English Term: water for industrial use
Definition: Water used by industries for purposes such as fabrication, processing, washing and cooling, which is obtained from a public supply or through self-supplied sources. (Source: WWC)
Chinese Term:工业用水
Translation:用于工业中的水，如用于制造、加工、清洗和冷却，它是从公共供水或通过自我供应的来源所获得。

Code: 9184
English Term: water hardness
Definition: The amount of calcium and magnesium salts dissolved in water. (Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 水的硬度
Translation:钙和镁的盐类在水中的溶解量。

Code: 9186
English Term: water hyacinth
Definition: Floating aquatic plant, Eichornia crassipes of tropical America, having showy bluish-purple flowers and swollen leafstalks: family Pontederiaceae. It forms dense masses in rivers, ponds, etc., and is a serious pest in the southern U.S., Java, Australia, New Zealand, and parts of Africa. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 水葫芦
Translation:浮动水生植物，美洲热带地区的水葫芦，有华丽的蓝紫色花朵和肿胀的叶柄：雨久花科。它形成于河流、池塘等的密集区，是美国南部、爪哇、澳大利亚、新西兰以及非洲部分地区的一种严重的有害植物。

Code: 12098
English Term: water infiltration into the ground
Definition: The movement of surface water into soil or rock through cracks and pores. (Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 水渗透到地下
Translation:地表水通过裂缝和孔进入土壤或岩石的运动。

Code:9190
English Term: water level
Definition: The level reached by the surface of a body of water. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 水位
Translation:水体表面所达到的水平。

Code:9195
English Term: water management
Definition: Measures taken to ensure an adequate supply of water and a responsible utilization of water resources. (Source: KORENa / PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 水管理
Translation:为确保有足够的水供应和可靠的水资源可利用而采取的措施。

Code: 11975
English Term: water mill
Definition: A mill whose power is provided by a large wheel which is turned by moving water, especially a river. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 水磨机
Translation:通过流动的水来驱动的磨坊，由转动的大轮来提供动力，最常见的是由河流的流水来推动。

Code:9196
English Term: water monitoring
Definition: Studies conducted to estimate the quantity and the quality of pollutants, nutrients and suspended solids contained in water bodies and to assess sources and factors associated with agricultural practices, industrial activities or other human activities. (Source: DNRa)
Chinese Term: 水质监测
Translation:用以估计污染物、营养物和水体中含有的悬浮固体的数量和质量，评估与农业实践、工业活动或其他人类活动相关的水源和因素的研究。

Code:9199
English Term: water pollutant
Definition: A chemical or physical agent introduced to any body of water that may detrimentally alter the natural condition of that body of water and other associated bodies of water. (Source: FFD / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 水污染物
Translation:引入到任何水体中、可能对水体的自然条件和其它相关水体产生不利改变的化学或物理因素。

Code:9202
English Term: water pollution
Definition: The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of water. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 水质污染
Translation:人为的或人为诱发的对水的化学、物理、生物和放射性完整性的改变。

Code:9203
English Term: water pollution prevention
Definition: Precautionary measures, actions or installations implemented to avert or hinder human-made or human-induced alteration of the physical, biological, chemical and radiological integrity of water. (Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 水污染防治
Translation:为避免或阻碍人为的或人为诱发的对水的化学、物理、生物和放射性完整性的改变而实施的预防措施、行为及相关设备。
Code:4122
English Term: water power
Definition: Energy obtained from natural or artificial waterfalls, either directly by turning a water wheel or turbine, or indirectly by generating electricity in a dynamo driven by a turbine. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水电
Translation:通过天然或人工瀑布，直接驱动水轮或涡轮，或间接的通过涡轮驱动的发电机发电获得的能源。

Code: 11082
English Term: water pricing
Definition: Applying a monetary rate or value at which water can be bought or sold. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 水定价
Translation:制定购买或出售水的利率或价格。

Code:9206
English Term: water protection
Definition: Measures to conserve surface and groundwater; to ensure the continued availability of water for growing domestic, commercial and industrial uses and to ensure sufficient water for natural ecosystems. (Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 水资源保护
Translation:保护地表水和地下水的措施，以确保水的持续可用性以满足不断增长的家庭、商业和工业用途，以确保自然生态系统有足够的水。

Code:6747
English Term: water protection area
Definition: Area surrounding a water recovery plant in which certain forms of soil utilization are restricted or prohibited in order to protect the groundwater. (Source: AZENP)
Chinese Term: 水保护区
Translation:水资源回收厂的周边地区，在此限制或禁止某些形式的土壤使用，以保护地下水。

Code:9207
English Term: water protection directive
Definition:
Chinese Term: 水保护指令
Translation:

Code:9208
English Term: water protection legislation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 水资源保护立法
Translation:

Code:9209
English Term: water pump
Definition: A machine or apparatus used to lift water, usually from a well or borehole, which is powered manually or by engine, wind or some other source. (Source: RHW / GLG)
Chinese Term: 水泵
Translation:通常从水井或井眼来提升水位的机器或设备，通过手动或发动机、风或其他动力来源。

Code:9210
English Term: water purification
Definition: Any of several processes in which undesirable impurities in water are removed or neutralized. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水净化
Translation:任何清除或中和不需要的水中杂质的过程。

Code:9211
English Term: water purification plant
Definition: Plant where water, through physical and chemical processes, is made suitable for human consumption and other purposes. (Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 水净化厂
Translation:将水通过物理和化学过程，变为适于人类消费及其它用途的工厂。

Code:9214
English Term: water quality
Definition: A graded value of the components (organic and inorganic, chemical or physical) which comprise the nature of water. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 水质
Translation:构成水的性质的成份（有机和无机，化学或物理）的分等级的值。

Code:9215
English Term: water quality directive
Definition: EC Directive establishing the rules relating to water for human consumption. (Source: DIRAMB)
Chinese Term: 水质指令
Translation:由欧盟委员会制定的与人类消费的水有关的规则。

Code:9216
English Term: water quality management
Definition: Water quality management concerns four major elements: the use (recreation, drinking water, fish and wildlife propagation, industrial or agricultural) to be made of the water; criteria to protect those uses; implementation plans (for needed industrial-municipal waste treatment improvements) and enforcement plans, and an anti-degradation statement to protect existing high quality waters. (Source: USC)
Chinese Term: 水质管理
Translation:水质管理涉及四个主要元素：由水所组成的使用（休闲、饮水、鱼类和野生动物繁殖、工业或农业）；保护这些用途的水的标准；实施计划（所需的工业、市政废水处理的改进）和执行计划；和一个反水质退化声明，以保护现有的高品质的水域。

Code:9217
English Term: water quantity management
Definition: The administration or handling of the amount of available potable water. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 水量管理
Translation:可用的饮用水水量的管理和处理。

Code: 12293
English Term: water regeneration
Definition: A process in which naturally occurring microorganisms, plants, trees or geophysical processes break down, degrade or filter out hazardous substances or pollutants from a body of water, cleansing and treating contaminated water without human intervention. (Source: OSW)
Chinese Term:水再生
Translation:微生物、植物、树木或地球物理的分解过程，退化或过滤掉水体中的有害物质或污染物，在没有任何人为干预情况下清洁和处理污染水的自然过程。

Code: 9220
English Term: water regulatory authority
Definition: The power of a government agency or its administrators to administer and implement regulations, laws and government policies relating to the preservation and protection of water resources. (Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 水管理权
Translation:政府机构或管理者的权力，管理和实施有关保存和保护水资源的条例、法律和政策。

Code: 12248
English Term: water reservoir
Definition: Artificial or natural area of water, used for storing water for domestic or industrial use. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 水库
Translation:人工或天然的水区域，用于住宅或工业用途的蓄水。

Code: 9221
English Term: water resource
Definition: Water in any of its forms, wherever located - atmosphere, surface or ground - which is or can be of value to man. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 水资源
Translation:任何形式、位于任何地方（大气、地表或地面）的可被人类利用的水。

Code: 9223
English Term: water resources conservation
Definition: Controlled utilization or protection of any supply of water so that it is potentially useful for some purpose, such as for an economic, recreational or life-sustaining purpose. (Source: MHE / EEN / WWC)
Chinese Term:水资源保护
Translation:对任何供水的控制使用或保护，以便用于一些潜在的用途，例如，经济实用、娱乐或维持生命的目的。

Code: 9225
English Term: water resources development
Definition:
Chinese Term: 水资源开发
Translation:

Code: 4758
English Term: water resources legislation
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to manage and protect an area's natural water supply and waterways. (Source: DES / BLD)
Chinese Term: 水资源立法
Translation:由政府规定的具有约束力的规则或规则体来管理和保护一个地区的天然水源和水道。

Code: 12301
English Term: water resources management
Definition: Measures and activities concerning the supply of water, the improvement of efficiency in its use, the reduction of losses and waste, water-saving practices to reduce costs and to slow the depletion of the water supply to ensure future water availability. (Source: EARTH1a)
Chinese Term: 水资源管理
Translation:有关水的供应、其使用效率的提高、损失和浪费的减少、节水实践的措施和活动，以降低成本，减缓供水损耗，以确保未来水资源的供应。

Code: 9227
English Term: water reuse
Definition: Use of process wastewater or treatment facility effluent in a different manufacturing process. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 水再利用
Translation:在不同的生产过程中使用处理过的废水或使用污水处理设施。

Code: 9229
English Term: water salination
Definition: Process by which water becomes more salty, found especially in hot countries where irrigation is practised. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 水盐化
Translation:水变得更咸的过程，常见于炎热的实行灌溉的国家。

Code: 12226
English Term: water salinity
Definition: The degree of dissolved salts in water measured by weight in parts per thousand. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 水盐度
Translation:按重量计算，每千份水所溶解盐的程度。

Code: 9230
English Term: water saving
Definition: Management of water resources aiming at ensuring the continued availability of water for human uses and natural ecosystems. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 节水
Translation:为确保人类和自然生态系统使用的水的持续可用性而进行的水资源管理。

Code: 9231
English Term: water science
Definition: The science that treats the occurrence, circulation, distribution, and properties of the waters of the earth, and their reaction with the environment. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水科学
Translation:研究地球上水的发生、流通、分布和特性，以及它们与环境的反应的科学。

Code: 7571
English Term: water seepage
Definition: The slow movement of water through small openings and spaces in the surface of unsaturated soil into or out of a body of surface or subsurface water. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 渗水
Translation:水通过非饱和土表面的小开口和空间缓慢移动进入或离开地面或地下的水。

Code: 9241
English Term: water statistics
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 水统计
Translation:无需定义。

Code: 9244
English Term: water supply
Definition: A source or volume of water available for use; also, the system of reservoirs, wells, conduits, and treatment facilities required to make the water available and usable. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 供水
Translation:可使用水的来源和可利用量，还包括使水可用的水库系统、水井、管道和处理设施。

Code: 12104
English Term: water table
Definition: Water that occupies pores, cavities, cracks and other spaces in the crustal rocks. It includes water precipitated from the atmosphere which has percolated through the soil, water that has risen from deep magmatic sources liberated during igneous activity and fossil water retained in sedimentary rocks since their formation. The presence of groundwater is necessary for virtually all weathering processes to operate. Phreatic water is synonymous with groundwater and is the most important source of any water supply. (Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 地下水
Translation:占据在孔隙、孔洞、裂缝和地壳岩石等空间的水。它包括从大气中沉淀下来通过土壤渗透的水，在岩浆活动期间从深岩浆源中上升所释放的水，和自形成以来保留在沉积岩的化石水。地下水的存在对于几乎所有的风化过程操作都是必要的。潜水是地下水的代名词，也是最重要的供水来源。

Code: 12108
English Term: water table protection
Definition: Water table is inherently susceptible to contamination from landuse activities. Remediation is very expensive and often impractical. Prevention of contamination is therefore critical in effective groundwater management. (Source: TECHBA)
Chinese Term: 地下水保护
Translation:地下水极易受到土地利用活动的污染。整治地下水是非常昂贵的，而且往往是不切实际的。因此防止污染在地下水的有效管理中很关键。

Code: 12216
English Term: water taste
Definition: Taste in water can be caused by foreign matter, such as organic compounds, inorganic salts or dissolved gases. These materials may come from domestic, agricultural or natural sources. Some substances found naturally in groundwater, while not necessarily harmful, may impart a disagreeable taste or undesirable property to the water. Magnesium sulphate, sodium sulphate, and sodium chloride are but a few of these. Acceptable waters should be free from any objectionable taste at point of use. (Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 水味
Translation:水味可由异物杂质所造成，如有机化合物、无机盐或溶解的气体。这些材料可能来自家庭、农业和自然来源。有些物质在地下水中自然存在，而不一定是有害的，可能会给水带来一种不愉快的味道或不良属性。硫酸镁、硫酸钠、氯化钠只是其中几种。可接受的水使用时应没有任何不良的味道。

Code: 9245
English Term: water transportation
Definition: Transportation of goods or persons by means of ships travelling on the sea or on inland waterways. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 水路运输
Translation:通过海上或内河航道行驶的船舶运输货物或人员。

Code: 9246
English Term: water treatment
Definition: Purification of water to make it suitable for drinking or for any other use. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水处理
Translation: 水的净化，使之适合饮用或用于其它任何用途。

Code: 9251
English Term: water utilisation
Definition: Three types of water use are distinguished: a) withdrawal, where water is taken from a river, or surface or underground reservoir, and after use returned to a natural water body, e.g. water used for cooling in industrial processes. Such return flows are particularly important for downstream users in the case of water taken from rivers; b) consumptive, which starts with withdrawal but in this case without any return, e.g. irrigation, steam escaping into the atmosphere, water contained in final products, i.e. it is no longer available directly for subsequent uses; c) non-withdrawal, i.e. the in situ use of a water body for navigation (including the floating of logs by the lumber industry), fishing, recreation, effluent disposal and hydroelectric power generation. (Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 用水
Translation: 水的使用可分为三种类型：1）回收，水来自河流、地表或地下水库，取用后返回到天然水体，如：用于工业生产过程中进行冷却的水。这种回流对于河流下游的用户从河流中取水非常重要；2）消耗，开始于回收，但在这种情况下没有任何返回，如灌溉、蒸汽散发到大气中、最终产品中所包含的水，也就是说，它不再是直接供日后使用；3）非回收，即水的就地使用（包括木材业中原木的飘浮）、钓鱼、休闲、污水处理和水电发电。

Code: 12202
English Term: water weed cutting
Definition: Cutting down by scythe or machine at intervals the vegetation growth and grasses on banks and berms of irrigation and drainage channels or cropped areas. (Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 水草切割
Translation: 按时间间隔由镰刀或机器切割河堤、灌溉护堤和排水渠道或耕种区的植被和草。

Code: 9255
English Term: water well
Definition: A well sunk to extract water from a zone of saturation. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水井
Translation: 从饱和区下沉处提取水的井。

Code: 9161
English Term: watercourse
Definition: A natural stream arising in a given drainage basin but not wholly dependent for its flow on surface drainage in its immediate area, flowing in a channel with a well-defined bed between visible banks or through a definite depression in the land, having a definite and permanent or periodic supply of water, and usually, but not necessarily, having a perceptible current in a particular direction and discharging at a fixed point into another body of water. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水道
Translation: 在某一流域出现的自然流水，但并非完全依赖其邻近地区表面排水的流量，在堤岸间有明显的河底或通过明显的土地洼地的通道中流动，有明确的和永久或定期的水供应，并不一定有明显的特定的流动方向，通常定点地排入另一个水体。

Code: 9170
English Term: waterfall
Definition: A perpendicular or steep descent of the water of a stream, as where it crosses an outcrop of resistant rock overhanging softer rock that has been eroded or flows over the edge of a plateau of cliffed coast. (Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 瀑布
Translation: 垂直的或陡峭的水流，它穿过岩石露头以上的已被侵蚀的悬垂性软岩，或流过一个高原的悬崖岸边。

Code: 9183
English Term: waterfowl
Definition: Aquatic birds which constitute the order Anseriformes, including the swans, ducks, geese, and screamers. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 水禽
Translation: 雁形目的水鸟，包括天鹅、鸭、鹅等。

Code: 9193
English Term: waterlogged land
Definition: Waterlogging is an effect of canal irrigation; it occurs when the water table rises to within 3 meters of a crop's roots, impeding their ability to absorb oxygen and ultimately compromising crop yields. Many factors contribute to waterlogging. These include inadequate drainage, improper balance in the use of groundwater and surface water, seepage and percolation from unlined channels, overwatering, planting crops not suited to specific soils, and inadequate preparation of land before irrigation. (Source: WRES)
Chinese Term: 涝渍地
Translation: 渍水是运河灌溉所产生的效果，当地下水位上升到农作物的根的三米以内时渍水会发生，阻碍根吸收氧气的能力，并最终影响作物产量。这些因素包括排水不足、地下水和地表水的平衡不当，来自未衬砌渠道的渗流和渗透、过顶水、种植不适合特定土壤的庄稼和灌溉前土地准备的不充分。

Code: 9235
English Term: watershed
Definition: The dividing line between two adjacent river systems, such as a ridge. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 分水岭
Translation: 两个相邻水系的分界线，如脊。

Code: 9234
English Term: watershed management
Definition: Use, regulation and treatment of water and land resources of a watershed to accomplish stated objectives. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 流域管理
Translation: 使用、管理和处理某个流域的水和土地资源来实现既定目标。

Code: 9236
English Term: waterside development
Definition: Any physical extension of, or changes to, the uses of land in waterfront areas. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 水边发展
Translation: 任何物理的扩展，或转变为滨水地区的土地使用。

Code: 9254
English Term: waterway
Definition: A river, canal, or other navigable channel used as a means of travel or transport. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 水路
Translation: 作为旅行或运输方式的一条河、运河或其它通航渠道。

Code: 9257
English Term: waterworks
Definition: Plant for treating and purifying water before it is pumped into pipes for distribution to houses, factories, schools, etc. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 自来水厂
Translation: 水在注入管道分发到住宅、工厂、学校等之前处理和净化水的工厂。

Code: 9259
English Term: wave energy
Definition: Power extracted from the motion of sea waves at the coast. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 波能
Translation: 从海岸的海浪运动中所提取出的能量。

Code: 11793
English Term: weakly degradable substance
Definition: A substance that is not easily converted to another, usually less complex compound. (Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 弱可降解物质
Translation: 该物质不容易转换为另一种物质，通常是不太复杂的化合物。

Code: 9267
English Term: weapon
Definition: An instrument of attack or defense in combat, as a gun, missile, or sword. (Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 武器
Translation:作战中攻击或防御的一种工具，如枪、导弹或剑。

Code: 9269
English Term: weather
Definition: The day-to-day meteorological conditions, especially temperature, cloudiness, and rainfall, affecting a specific place. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 天气
Translation: 每日所观察的气象条件，特别是温度、云量和降雨量，会影响到某个特定的地方。

Code: 9270
English Term: weather condition
Definition: The complex of meteorological characteristics in a given region. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 天气状况
Translation: 在特定区域复杂的气象特征。

Code: 9278
English Term: weather forecasting
Definition: The act or process of predicting and highlighting meteorological conditions that are expected for a specific time period and for a specific area or portion of air space, by using objective models based on certain atmospheric parameters, along with the skill and experience of a meteorologist. (Source: FEM / AUS)
Chinese Term: 天气预报
Translation: 预测并着重指出在特定时间内、特定区域或部分的大气空间下预计会出现的气象条件的过程或行为，它通过使用基于大气参数的目标模型、技能和有经验的气象学家来实现。

Code: 9274
English Term: weather modification
Definition: The changing of natural weather phenomena by technical means. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 天气改造
Translation: 通过技术手段改变自然天气现象。

Code: 9276
English Term: weather monitoring
Definition: The periodic or continuous surveillance or analysis of the state of the atmosphere and climate, including variables such as temperature, moisture, wind velocity and barometric pressure. (Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 天气监测
Translation: 定期或连续监测或分析大气和气候状况，包括诸如温度、湿度、风速、气压的变量。

Code: 9280
English Term: weed
Definition: Any plant that grows wild and profusely, especially one that grows among cultivated plants, depriving them of space, food, etc. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 杂草
Translation: 野生的和生长茂盛的任何植物，尤其指在栽培植物之间生长、剥夺栽培植物的空间、食物等的植物。

Code: 9281
English Term: weed control
Definition: Freeing an area of land from weeds by several means, such as herbicides, tillage, burning, mowing, and crop competition. (Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 杂草控制
Translation: 通过若干手段可清除土地区域的杂草，如除草剂、耕作、燃烧、割草，以及作物的竞争。

Code: 9286
English Term: weight
Definition: The gravitational force with which the earth attracts a body. By extension, the gravitational force with which a star, planet, or satellite attracts a nearby body. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 重量
Translation: 地球吸引一个物体的引力。推而广之，为恒星、行星或卫星吸引附近天体的引力。

Code: 9289
English Term: welding
Definition: Joining two metals by applying heat to melt and fuse them, with or without filler metal. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 焊接
Translation: 采用加热熔化来连接和熔合两种金属，其中可有或无填充金属。

Code: 9290
English Term: well
Definition: A hole dug into the earth to reach a supply of water, oil, brine or gas. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 井
Translation: 掘入地面的一个洞，以此来获取水、油、盐水或天然气的供应。

Code: 9293
English Term: West Africa
Definition: A geographic region of the African continent bordered in the west and south by the Atlantic Ocean, including the republics of Benin, Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Cote D'ivoire, Gambie, Ghana, Guinee Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritanie, Niger, Nigeria, Sengegal, Sierra Leone and Togo. (Source: ECW)
Chinese Term: 西非
Translation: 在西部和南部与大西洋接壤的非洲大陆的地理区域，包括贝宁、布基纳法索、佛得角、科特迪瓦、冈比亚、加纳、几内亚、几内亚比绍，利比里亚、马里、毛里塔尼亚、尼日尔共和国、尼日利亚、塞内加尔、塞拉利昂和多哥。

Code: 9294
English Term: Western Asia
Definition: A geographic region of Asia that includes Turkey, Iran and other countries of the Middle East and the Arabian peninsula. (Source: INP)
Chinese Term: 西亚
Translation: 亚洲的地理区域，包括土耳其、伊朗和中东其它国家及阿拉伯半岛。

Code: 9295
English Term: Western Europe
Definition: A geographic region of the European continent surrounded by the North Sea, Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, including Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and other member countries of the Western European Union. (Source: CIA)
Chinese Term: 西欧
Translation: 由北海、大西洋和地中海包围的欧洲大陆的地理区域，包括比利时、法国、德国、英国、希腊、意大利、卢森堡、荷兰、葡萄牙、西班牙和西欧联盟其他成员国。

Code: 9299
English Term: wet process
Definition: Process used to remove particulate matter and/or gaseous pollutants by means of an aqueous stream or slurry. (Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 湿法
Translation: 通过水流或悬浮液的方式去除颗粒物和/或气态污染物的工艺方法。

Code: 9300
English Term: wet scrubber
Definition: 1) An air cleaning device that literally washes out the dust. Exhaust air is forced into a spray chamber, where fine water particles cause the dust to drop from the air stream. The dust-ladden water is then treated to remove the solid material and is often recirculated. 2) Equipment through which a gas is passed to remove impurities (solid, liquid, or gaseous particles) by intimate contact with a suitable liquid, usually an aqueous medium. (Source: LANDY / BRACK / ALL)
Chinese Term: 湿式洗涤器
Translation: 1）按字面含义是清洗灰尘的空气净化装置。废气被强制进入喷雾室，细水颗粒会造成灰尘从气流中下沉。沾上粉尘的水被处理，以去除固体物质，而且常常可循环。2）一种设备，气体通过它由一种紧密接触的合适的液体（通常是一种水介质）来去除杂质（固体，液体或气体粒子）。

Code:9301
English Term: wet waste
Definition:Organic refuse or material left over from a manufacturing process, which is characterized by the presence of moisture. (Source: RHW / GRP)
Chinese Term: 湿废料
Translation:生产过程中遗留下来的有机废料或物质，它的特点是有水分的存在。

Code:9297
English Term: wetland
Definition:Areas that are inundated by surface or ground water with frequency sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requires saturated or seasonally saturated soil conditions for growth or reproduction. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 湿地
Translation:被地表或地下水充满的次数足以支持那些需要饱和的或季节性饱和的土壤条件来增长或繁殖的植物或水生生物广泛流行的地区。

Code:9298
English Term: wetlands ecosystem
Definition:Ecosystems of areas largely inundated with water but offering elevated lands as a habitat for wildlife. This areas include swamps, both seasonal and permanent, marsh, open fresh water, shallow saline lagoons, the estuaries of rivers, floodplains and coastal sand dunes. They provide food, breeding grounds, water and sanctuary for many forms of fish, birds and other animal and plant life. They are among the most productive ecosystems producing timber, peat moss and crops such as rice and a variety of berries. (Source: GILP96 / WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 湿地生态系统
Translation:大部分充满水、但提供了更高级土地作为一个野生动物栖息地的区域生态系统。这个区域包括沼泽（季节性和永久性的）、湿地、开放淡水、浅层咸水湖、河流入海口、冲积平原和沿海沙丘。它们提供食物、繁殖地、多种形式的鱼类、鸟类和其它动物和植物的水和保护区。它们是最富有成效的生态系统之一，它们产生木材、泥炭藓、诸如大米之类的作物和各种浆果。

Code:9302
English Term: whale
Definition:Large marine mammals of the order Cetacea; the body is streamlined, the broad flat tail is used for propulsion, and the limbs are balancing structures. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 鲸鱼
Translation:大型鲸类海洋哺乳动物，身体呈流线型，有用于推进的宽的扁平尾巴，四肢是平衡的结构。

Code:9305
English Term: whaling
Definition:Catching whales to use as food or for their oil, etc. Whales are the largest mammals still in existence. They are caught mainly for their oils, though in some case for food. Some species of whale have become extinct because of overexploitation and the population of many of the existing species is dangerously low. Commercial whaling is severely restricted. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 捕鲸
Translation:捕获鲸鱼用作食物或提取它们的油等，鲸在现存哺乳动物中体型最大的。它们被捕获主要是为了提取油，尽管在某些情况下是为了获取食物。由于过度捕杀，一些鲸鱼物种已灭绝，现有的物种数量已达到濒临危险值。商业捕鲸受到严格的限制。

Code:12395
English Term: whey
Definition:The watery liquid that separates from the curd when the milk is clotted, as in making cheese. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 乳清
Translation:乳状物凝结（如制作奶酪）时从凝乳中分离出的水样液体。

Code:9308
English Term: wholesale trade
Definition:The business of selling goods to retailers in larger quantities than they are sold to final consumers but in smaller quantities than they are purchased from manufacturers. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 批发贸易
Translation:销售给零售商的商品比出售给最终消费者的商品数量大，但比从制造商购买的商品的数量小的业务。

Code:14861
English Term: wide area network
Definition:A system of interrelated computer and telecommunications devices linking two or more computers separated by a great distance for the exchange of electronic data. (Source: WIC)
Chinese Term: 广域网
Translation:连接远距离的两个或两个以上的计算机，以实现电子数据交换的计算机和电信设备系统。

Code: 9310
English Term: wild animal
Definition:Not domesticated animals living independently of man. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 野生动物
Translation:独立于人类生存的非家养的动物。

Code: 13101
English Term: wild fauna
Definition:Not domesticated animals living independently of man. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 野生动物
Translation:独立于人类生存的非家养的动物。

Code: 9323
English Term: wild plant
Definition:Plants growing in a natural state (not cultivated). (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 野生植物
Translation:在自然状态下生长的植物。

Code: 9313
English Term: wildlife
Definition:Animals and plants that grow independently of people, usually in natural conditions. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 野生动植物
Translation:独立于人类、通常在自然条件下生长的动物和植物。

Code: 9314
English Term: wildlife conservation
Definition:A series of measures required to maintain or restore the natural habitats and the populations of species of wild fauna and flora at a favourable status. (Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 野生动植物保护
Translation:为维持或恢复自然栖息地和野生动植物物种数量在一个合理的状态所需采取的一系列措施。

Code: 9315
English Term: wildlife habitat
Definition:Suitable upland or wetland areas promoting survival of wildlife. (Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 野生动植物栖息地
Translation:促进野生动植物生存的适合的旱地或湿地。

Code: 9318
English Term: wildlife population statistics
Definition:The numerical facts or data collected through various methodologies, such as sighting surveys, which represent or estimate the size of any wildlife species for purposes such as analyzing population trends. (Source: RHW / EEN)
Chinese Term: 野生动植物种群统计
Translation:通过各种方法（如目视调查）收集的数据，以代表或估算任何野生动植物物种的大小，以达到如种群趋势分析之类的目的。

Code: 10064
English Term: wildlife protection
Definition:Precautionary actions, procedures or installations undertaken to prevent or reduce harm to animals, plants and other organisms living in their natural state. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 野生动植物保护
Translation:为防止或减少对动物、植物和生活在自然状态下的其它生物的伤害而采用的预防措施、程序及相关设备。

Code: 9321
English Term: wildlife sanctuary
Definition:1) An area, usually in natural condition, which is reserved (set aside) by a governmental or private agency for the protection of particular species of animals during part or all of the year. 2) An area designated for the protection of wild animals, within which hunting and fishing is either prohibited or strictly controlled. (Source: UNUN / LANDY)
Chinese Term: 野生动植物保护区
Translation:1）政府或私人机构为保护特定物种的动植物在部分或全年期间所保留（预留）的处于自然条件下的地区。2）指定为保护野生动植物的地区，在其范围内狩猎和捕鱼是禁止或严格控制的。

Code: 9325
English Term: willingness-to-pay analysis
Definition:
Chinese Term: 支付意愿
Translation:

Code: 9324
English Term: willingness-to-pay
Definition:
Chinese Term: 支付意愿分析
Translation:

Code: 9327
English Term: wind
Definition:The motion of air relative to the earth's surface; usually means horizontal air motion, as distinguished from vertical motion. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 风
Translation:空气相对于地球表面的运动，通常是指空气的水平运动，以有别于垂直运动。

Code: 9330
English Term: wind erosion
Definition:The breakdown of solid rock into smaller particles and its removal by wind. It may occur on any soil whose surface is dry, unprotected by vegetation (to bind it at root level and shelter the surface) and consists of light particles. The mechanisms include straightforward picking up of dust and soil particles by the airflow and the dislodging or abrasion of surface material by the impact of particles already airborne. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 风蚀
Translation:坚石被风破裂成较小的颗粒和移动。它可能发生在任何表面干燥、表面无保护植被（将它绑定在根级和保护其表面）和轻粒子所组成的土壤中。该机制包括通过气流直接落下灰尘和土壤颗粒，和在已经空降的粒子的影响下脱落或磨损表面材质。

Code: 9335
English Term: wind power
Definition:Energy extracted from wind, traditionally in a windmill, but increasingly by more complicated designes including turbines, usually to produce electricity but also for water pumping. The power available from wind is proportional to the area swept by the rotating place and the cube of the wind velocity, but less than half the available power can be recovered. (Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 风能
Translation:从风中提取的能量，传统的风能从风车中提取，但越来越多的是从包括涡轮机在内的设计更为复杂的设备中提取，通常是生产电力，但也用于抽水。可用的风能与旋转区的面积和风速的立方成比例，但只有不到一半的可用风能可以恢复。

Code: 9336
English Term: wind power station
Definition:Power station which uses wind to drive a turbine which creates electricity. (Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 风力发电站
Translation: 利用风驱动涡轮机来发电的电站。

Code: 10685
English Term: windfall
Definition:1) Falling of old trees in a forest caused by a storm or strong wind. It plays an important role in the spontaneous regeneration of forest ecosystems. 2) A plot of land covered with trees blown down by the wind. (Source: RAMADE / CED)
Chinese Term:风倒区
Translation: 1）风暴或强风造成的森林中老树的倒落。它在森林生态系统的自发再生中起着重要作用。2）被风吹倒的树木所覆盖的一块土地。

Code: 9331
English Term: windmill
Definition:A machine for grinding or pumping driven by a set of adjustable vanes or sails that are caused to turn by the force of the wind. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 风车
Translation: 由一套可调叶片、或由风力转动的帆所驱动的用于研磨或抽吸的机器。

Code: 10911
English Term: winter sports resort
Definition:Resort where sports held in the open air on snow or ice, especially skiing are practiced. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 冬季运动胜地
Translation:露天的雪或冰上举行体育活动的度假村，尤其指滑雪练习。

Code: 9344
English Term: woman
Definition:An adult human female.
Chinese Term: 女子
Translation: 一个成年女性。

Code: 9347
English Term: woman's status
Definition:The social position, rank or relative importance of women in society.
Chinese Term: 妇女地位
Translation: 妇女在社会中的社会地位、等级或相对重要性。

Code: 9349
English Term: wood
Definition:A dense growth of trees more extensive than a grove and smaller than a forest. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 树林
Translation: 比小树林要广泛但比森林要小的密集增长的树木。

Code: 13553
English Term: wood hauling
Definition:The process of removing forest produce, particularly timber, fuelwood and bamboos, from its place of growth to some permanent or major delivery point, either for further transport or further manufacture, i.e. secondary conversion, or both. (Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 树木搬运
Translation: 森林产品（尤其指木材、薪材和竹子）从其生长地到主要传递点、以备进一步的运输或制造，即二次转换，或两者兼而有之的移动过程。

Code: 9356
English Term: wood preservation
Definition:The use of chemicals to prevent or retard the decay of wood, especially by fungi or insects; widely used preservatives include creosote, pitch, sodium fluoride and tar; especially used on wood having contact with the ground. (Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 木材防腐
Translation: 使用化学品防止或延缓尤其是由真菌或昆虫所造成的木材腐朽；广泛使用的防腐剂包括杂酚油、沥青、焦油和氟化钠，特别是在与地面接触的木材中使用。

Code: 9358
English Term: wood product
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 木制品
Translation: 无需定义。

Code: 9362
English Term: wood waste
Definition:Waste which is left over after the processing of raw timber. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 木材废料
Translation: 原木加工结束后遗留的废料。

Code: 9352
English Term: woodland clearance
Definition:The permanent clear-felling of an area of forest or woodland. On steep slopes this can lead to severe soil erosion, especially where heavy seasonal rains or the melting of snow at higher levels cause sudden heavy flows of water. In the humid tropics it may also lead to a release of carbon dioxide from the soil. (Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 林地清理
Translation: 森林或林区永久的清理砍伐。在陡峭的斜坡，这可能导致严重的水土流失，特别是大量的季节性降雨或更高水平上的积雪融化会导致水突然大量流入。在潮湿的热带地区也可能导致二氧化碳从土壤中释放。

Code: 9353
English Term: woodland ecosystem
Definition:The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in wooded areas or land areas covered with trees and shrubs. (Source: TOE / WOR)
Chinese Term: 林地生态系统
Translation: 生物群落及其林区的非居住环境或与覆盖树木和灌木的陆地地区相互作用的系统。

Code: 9363
English Term: wool
Definition:A textile fiber made from raw wool characterized by absorbency, resiliency and insulation. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 羊毛织品
Translation: 用羊毛原料制成的一种纺织纤维，有吸收性、弹性和绝缘性的特点。

Code: 9366
English Term: work accident
Definition:Accident occurring in the course of the employment and caused by inherent or related factors arising from the operation of materials of one's occupation. (Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 工伤事故
Translation: 在工作过程中发生的事故，由与人相关的材料操作所产生的内在或相关因素所造成。

Code: 9367
English Term: worked-out open cut
Definition:A mine where all the mineral that could be profitably exploited has been removed. (Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 露天空矿
Translation:所有的可被利用开采的矿产已被清除的一种矿井。

Code: 9369
English Term: working condition
Definition:All existing circumstances affecting labor in the workplace, including job hours, physical aspects, legal rights and responsibilities. (Source: CIV)
Chinese Term: 工作条件
Translation: 工作场所中影响工作的所有因素，包括工作时间、物质方面、法律权利和责任。

Code: 9371
English Term: working hours
Definition:The time devoted to gainful employment or job-related activities, usually calculated as hours per day or per week. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 工作时间
Translation: 有酬工作或与工作有关活动的时间，通常是按每天或每周小时数来计算。

Code:13341
English Term: working population engaged in agriculture
Definition:The number of a particular region or nation's working population gainfully employed or otherwise occupied with the production of crops, livestock or poultry. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 从事农业的劳动人口
Translation: 某一地区或国家的进行有酬工作、或从事作物生产、畜牧业或家禽业的劳动人口的数量。

Code:9373
English Term: working the soil
Definition:Ploughing the soil for agricultural purposes. (Source: PHCa)
Chinese Term: 耕种土壤
Translation: 用于农业用途的耕种土壤。

Code:9375
English Term: workplace
Definition:Any or all locations or environments where people are employed. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 工作场所
Translation: 人们就业的所有地点或环境。
Code:9380
English Term: world
Definition:The Earth with all its inhabitants and all things upon it. (Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 世界
Translation: 拥有所有居民和其上所有物质的地球。

Code:9382
English Term: world heritage site
Definition:Sites of great cultural significance and geographic areas of outstanding universal value. They include the Pyramids of Egypt, the Grand Canyon of United States, the Taj Mahal of India, the Great Wall of China, etc. (Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 世界遗产地
Translation: 具有重大文化意义和具有突出普遍价值的地理区域和场所。它们包括埃及的金字塔、美国的大峡谷、印度的泰姬陵、中国的长城等。

Code:14863
English Term: World Wide Web
Definition:A graphical, interactive, hypertext information system that is cross-platform and can be run locally or over the global Internet. The Web consists of Web servers offering pages of information to Web browsers who view and interact with the pages. Pages can contain formatted text, background colors, graphics, as well as audio and video clips. Simple links in a Web page can cause the browser to jump to a different part of the same page or to a page on a Web server halfway around the world. Web pages can be used to send mail, read news, and download files. A Web address is called a URL. (Source: CAMER)
Chinese Term: 万维网
Translation: 一个跨平台的、可在本地或通过全球互联网运行的图形化、交互式、超文本信息系统。万维网由Web服务器组成，给用于查看网页和与网页互动的网页浏览器提供网页信息。网页可以包含格式化文本、背景颜色、图形，以及音频和视频剪辑。网页中的简单链接，能够使浏览器跳转到相同页面的不同部分或跳转到世界各地的Web服务器中的某一网页。网页可以用来发送邮件、阅读新闻、并下载文件。Web地址被称为统一资源定位符。

Code:12390
English Term: wreck
Definition:The hulk of a wrecked or stranded ship; a ship dashed against rocks or land and broken or otherwise rendered useless. (Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 失事船只
Translation: 失事或搁浅的废船；撞向岩石或土地的、破碎的或形同无用的船。

Code:9389
English Term: write-off
Definition:Accounting procedure that is used when an asset is uncollectible and is therefore charged-off as a loss. (Source: ISEP / RHW)
Chinese Term: 注销
Translation: 当资产无法收回而作为亏损销账时使用的会计程序。

Code:9391
English Term: wrongful act
Definition:An act contrary to the rules of natural or legal justice. (Source: CURZON)
Chinese Term: 不法行为
Translation: 违反了自然或法律公正准则的行为。

Code:9392
English Term: wrongful government act
Definition:A deed performed by a government official or agent in exercise of police, constitutional, legislative, administrative or judicial powers that infringes upon the rights of another and causes damage, without protecting an equal or superior right. (Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 不当政府行为
Translation: 政府官员或机关在行使警察、宪法、立法、行政或司法权力时，侵犯他人的权利而导致危害，没有保护平等的或优先的权利的行为。
Code:9398
English Term: X ray
Definition:A penetrating electromagnetic radiation, usually generated by accelerating electrons to high velocity and suddenly stopping them by collision with a solid body, or by inner-shell transitions of atoms with atomic number greater than 10; their wavelength ranges from about 10(-5) angstrom to 10(3) angstroms, the average wavelength used in research being 1 angstrom. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: X射线
Translation: 一种可穿透的电磁辐射，通常由电子加速到很高的速度并突然与一个固体产生碰撞而产生，或通过原子数大于10的原子内壳层跃迁而产生，其波长范围从大约10（-5）埃到10（3）埃，经研究平均波长为1埃。

Code:9395
English Term: xenobiotic substance
Definition:A substance which would not normally be found in a given environment, and usually means a toxic chemical which is entirely artificial, such as a chlorinated aromatic compound or an organomercury compound. (Source: BIOTAZ)
Chinese Term: 异生物质
Translation: 通常不会在特定环境中发现的一种物质，通常是指完全人为的和有毒的化学物质，如氯化芳香族化合物或有机汞化合物。

Code:9403
English Term: yeast
Definition:Many species of unicellular fungi, most of which belong to the Ascomycetes and reproduce by budding. The genus Saccharomyces is used in brewing and winemaking because in low oxygen concentration it produces zymase, an enzyme system that breaks down sugars to alcohol and carbon dioxide. Saccharomyces is also used in bread-making. Some yeasts are used as a source of protein and of vitamins of the B group. (Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 酵母
Translation: 众多单细胞真菌物种，其中大部分属于子囊菌并通过萌芽来繁殖。酵母用于发酵酿酒，因为它在低浓度氧时产生酿酶，酶系统能够将糖分解成酒精和二氧化碳。酵母还可用于面包制作。有些酵母菌被用来作为蛋白和B类维生素的来源。

Code:13186
English Term: yield (agricultural)
Definition:The accumulated volume or biomass remaining from gross production after accounting for losses due to respiration during production, herbivory, litterfall, and other factors that decrease the remaining available biomass. (Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 产量（农业）
Translation: 考虑到生产过程中的呼吸作用、食草动物、凋落和其它因素会减少可用生物量，因此从总产量中扣除以上因素所剩余的累计量或生物量。

Code: 9404
English Term: yield (economy)
Definition:Profit or income created through an investment or a business transaction.
Chinese Term: 产量（经济）
Translation: 通过投资或商业交易所创造的利润或收入。

Code: 10919
English Term: young
Definition:
Chinese Term: 年轻
Translation:

Code: 9407
English Term: youth
Definition:The state of being young; the period between childhood and adult age. (Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 青年
Translation: 年轻的状态；儿童和成人之间的年龄段。

Code: 9409
English Term: youth work
Definition:Job opportunities and employment for adolescents, either for financial reward or educational enrichment. (Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 青年工作
Translation: 为青年人提供工作机会，包括经济上的资助或提供教育培训。

Code: 9412
English Term: zinc
Definition:A brittle bluish-white metallic element that becomes coated with a corrosion-resistant layer in moist air and occurs chiefly in sphalerite and smithsonite. It is a constituent of several alloys, especially brass and nickel-silver, and is used in die-casting, galvanizing metals, and in battery electrodes. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 锌
Translation: 一种脆蓝白色金属元素，在潮湿空气中会涂上抗腐蚀层，主要出现在闪锌矿和菱锌矿中。它是由多种合金的成分，特别是铜和镍银合金，用于压铸、电镀金属、电池电极。

Code: 9417
English Term: zoning
Definition:Designation and reservation under a master plan of land use for light and heavy industry, dwellings, offices, and other buildings; use is enforced by restrictions on types of buildings in each zone. (Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 分区
Translation: 在土地利用总体规划下，指定和保留用于轻工业和重工业、住所、办公室和其它建筑物的土地；对于每个区域中各类建筑物的使用都有强行的限制。

Code: 9422
English Term: zoological garden
Definition:Area in which animals, especially wild animals, are kept so that people can go and look at them, or study them. (Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 动物园
Translation: 保留动物，尤其是野生动物，以便人们可以去观看或研究它们的地方。

Code: 9425
English Term: zoology
Definition:The study of animals, including their classification, structure, physiology, and history. (Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 动物学
Translation: 对动物的研究，包括其分类、结构、生理和历史。

Code: 9426
English Term: zoonosis
Definition:Diseases which are biologically adapted to and normally found in animals but which under some conditions also infect man. (Source: MGH
Chinese Term: 动物传染病
Translation: 生物学中一般发现于动物体内的疾病，但它在一定条件下也感染人。

Code: 12913
English Term: public institution of administrative nature
Definition: Public institution for the management of administrative issues.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 自然管理界的公共制度
Translation: 管理管理问题的公共制度。

Code: 12914
English Term: public institution of industrial and commercial nature
Definition: Public institution for the management of industrial and commercial issues.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 工业和商业制度的公共制度
Translation: 管理工业和商业问题的公共制度。

Code: 13265
English Term: public international law
Definition: The general rules and principles pertaining to the conduct of nations and of international organizations and with the relations among them.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 公共国际法
Translation: 适合国家和国际组织的行为和它们之间关系的通用的条例和原则。

Code: 6802
English Term: public law
Definition: A general classification of law, consisting generally of constitutional, administrative, criminal and international law, concerned with the organization of the state, the relations between the state and the people who compose it, the responsibilities of public officers to the state, to each other, and to private persons, and the relations of states to one other. The branch or department of law which is concerned with the state in its political or sovereign capacity, including constitutional and administrative law, and with the definition, regulation, and enforcement of rights in cases where the state is regarded as the subject of the right or object of the duty, - including criminal law and criminal procedure, - and the law of the state, considered in its quasi private personality, i.e., as capable of holding or exercising rights, or acquiring and dealing with property, in the character of an individual.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 公共法律
Translation: 通用的法律类别，包括宪法、行政法、刑法和国际法。这些法律涉及到国家的组成、国家和组成国家的人民间的关系、公共官员对国家、互相和对人民的责任和国家之间的关系。法律的分支或部分规定了以上各个方面，宪法和行政法涉及到国家的政治或元首的能力；刑法和刑事诉讼法规定了在国家被认为是权利的主体或责任的客体的情况下对权利的定义、规定和执行；国家法律，考虑到国家类似私人的特性，例如，能够具有或执行权利，或者考虑国家的个人特性，如能获得和处理财产。

Code: 11526
English Term: public maritime domain
Definition: eas or ocean areas owned by the state as opposed to individuals or corporations.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 公共航海范围
Translation: 属于国家的海洋范围，而不是个人或公司的。

Code: 6804
English Term: public opinion
Definition: The purported, collective view of the public on some issue or problem, typically formulated by selective polling or sampling, and frequently used as a guide to action or decision.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 公共意见
Translation: 对于一些问题的公众观点，通常是来自投票或抽样调查，常常作为行动或决策的指导。

Code: 6805
English Term: public opinion polling
Definition: The canvassing of a representative sample of a large group of people on some question in order to determine the general opinion of a group.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 公共意见投票
Translation: 为确定公众的意见，在一些问题上对公众中的一些有代表性的样本做调查。

Code: 6806
English Term: public park
Definition: Park with big trees, ornamental plants, alleys bordered by trees or bushes, fountains and statues situated in a town and whose access is free.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 公共公园
Translation: 在城镇中由大树、观赏性植物、树木或灌木围成的小巷，包括喷泉和雕像公园，并可以免费参观。

Code: 6808
English Term: public participation
Definition: The involvement, as an enfranchised citizen, in public matters, with the purpose of exerting influence.&#10;(Source: NRW)
Chinese Term: 公共参与
Translation: 作为有选举权的公民，为了施加影响，参与到公共事务中。

Code: 6810
English Term: public procurement
Definition: The governmental process of purchasing supplies, equipment and services, or purchasing contracts to secure the provision of supplies, equipment and services, which are often sold by the private sector.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 公共采购
Translation: 政府购买供应品、设备和服务的过程，或购买合同以保证私人部门提供供应品、设备和服务的过程。

Code: 6812
English Term: public prosecutor's office
Definition: A government agency for which an elected or appointed attorney or staff of attorneys is vested with the authority by a constitution or statute to try cases on the government's behalf, to represent public interest or to take legal action against persons violating federal, state or local laws.&#10;(Source: USC / LTM)
Chinese Term: 公众检查官
Translation: 一个政府机构，该机构中选举或任命的律师或律师工作人员具有由宪法或法律赋予的权利，他们代表政府审理，表达公共利益或对危害联邦、国家或当地法律的人采取法律行动。

Code: 14876
English Term: public relations
Definition: The methods and activities employed by an individual, organization, corporation, or government to promote a favourable relationship with the public.
Chinese Term: 公众关系
Translation: 由个人、组织、公司或政府采用的方法或行为，以此体现和公众良好的关系

Code: 6816
English Term: public sector
Definition: Segment of the economy run to some degree by government, including national and local governments, government-owned firms and quasi-autonomous non-government organizations.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 公众部门
Translation: 在某种程度上由政府运行的经济部门，包括国家和地方政府，政府拥有的企业和类似于自治的无政府组织。

Code: 6817
English Term: public service
Definition: An enterprise concerned with the provision to the public of essentials, such as electricity or water.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 公众服务
Translation: 提供公共必需品相关的企业，例如电和水。

Code: 6818
English Term: public transport
Definition: The act or the means of conveying people in mass as opposed to conveyance in private vehicles.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 公共运输
Translation: 运输大量人员而不是用私人交通的运输活动。

Code: 6821
English Term: public transport vehicle
Definition: Vehicle for conveying large numbers of paying passengers from one place to another.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 公共运输交通工具
Translation: 通过收费运输大量人员的交通工具。

Code: 6822
English Term: public utility
Definition: An enterprise concerned with the provision to the public of essentials, such as electricity or water.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 公共设施
Translation: 提供公共必需品相关的企业，例如电和水。

Code: 11525
English Term: public waterways domain
Definition: Rivers, canals and lakes owned by the state as opposed to individuals or corporations.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 公用水路范围
Translation: 属于国家而不是个人或公司的河流、运河和湖泊。

Code: 6824
English Term: public works
Definition: Structures, as roads, dams, or post offices, paid for by government funds for public use.
Chinese Term: 公共建设
Translation: 建筑物，例如公路、大坝或邮局，是为了公众使用，并由政府付款建立的。

Code: 6809
English Term: public-private partnership
Definition: A joint venture between corporations and government or between community members and government or business beyond the course of normal interaction.&#10;(Source: NTL)
Chinese Term: 公私合营关系
Translation: 公司和政府之间或社会成员和政府之间的合资公司，不同于一般交互的业务。

Code: 6827
English Term: pulmonary disease
Definition: Any disease pertaining to the lungs.&#10;(Source: DELFIN)
Chinese Term: 肺病
Translation: 任何肺部的病。

Code: 6828
English Term: pulp
Definition: The cellulosic material produced by reducing wood mechanically or chemically and used in making paper and cellulose products. Also known as wood pulp.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 浆状物
Translation: 通过机械或化学的方法把木头制成纤维原料用来制纸和纤维制品，也叫做木浆。

Code: 6830
English Term: pulp industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in manufacturing and selling the soft, moist, slightly cohering mass deriving from wood that is used to produce paper sheets, cardboard and other paper products.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 造纸工业
Translation: 一个经济部门，商业企业制造和销售来源于木头的软性、湿性和轻薄的纸片，这些纸片用来制造纸张，硬纸板和其它纸质产品。

Code: 6831
English Term: pump
Definition: A machine that draws a fluid into itself through an entrance port and forces the fluid out through an exhaust port.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 泵
Translation: 从输入口抽进液体再从出口排出液体的机器。

Code: 6833
English Term: pumping
Definition: The removal of gases and vapors from a vacuum system.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 泵抽
Translation: 从真空系统中去除空气和蒸汽。

Code: 6835
English Term: purchase
Definition: The acquisition or the act of buying something by payment of money or its equivalent.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 购买
Translation: 用钱或它的等价物获得或购买物品。

Code: 6838
English Term: purification
Definition: The removal of unwanted constituents from a substance.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 净化
Translation: 从物质中去除不需要的部分。

Code: 6841
English Term: purification facility
Definition: Equipment for the removal of impurities and unwanted constituents from a medium.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 净化设施
Translation: 去除介质中不纯或不需要的部分的设备。

Code: 6842
English Term: purification plant
Definition: Installation where impurities are removed from waste water.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 净化工厂
Translation: 从废水中去除不纯部分的设施。

Code: 11214
English Term: purification through the soil
Definition: The act or process in which a section of the ground is freed from pollution or any type of contamination, often through natural processes.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 土壤净化
Translation: 通常是通过自然过程，使一部分土壤免于污染的过程。

Code: 11693
English Term: purifying power
Definition: Regenerative capacity of a system, of soils, water, etc.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 净化能力
Translation: 系统的再生能力，例如土壤、水等。

Code: 6846
English Term: purin
Definition: Any of a number of nitrogenous bases, such as guanine and adenine, that are derivatives of purine and constituents of nucleic acids and certain coenzymes.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 嘌呤
Translation: 某种含氮碱基，例如腺嘌呤和鸟嘌呤，它们是嘌呤的衍生物并且是核酸和特定辅酶的组成部分。

Code: 11745
English Term: pyralene
Definition: Chemical compound belonging to the polychlorinated biphenyls family, used in the production of electrical equipment which requires dielectric fluid such as power transformers and capacitors, as well as in hydraulic machinery, vacuum pumps, compressors and heat-exchanger fluids.&#10;(Source: PZ)
Chinese Term: 聚酰亚胺
Translation: 属于多氯化联苯家族的化合物，用于需要电介质液体德电气设备中，例如变压器和电容器，也用于液压机、真空泵、压缩机和热交换的液体。

Code: 6855
English Term: pyrolysis
Definition: The breaking apart of complex molecules into simpler units by the use of heat.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 热分解
Translation: 通过加热使复杂的分子分解成简单的单元。

Code: 6859
English Term: quality assurance
Definition:
Chinese Term: 质量保证
Translation:

Code: 10938
English Term: quality certification
Definition: The formal assertion in writing that a commodity, service or other product has attained a recognized and relatively high grade or level of excellence.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 质量证明
Translation: 书面的正式申明，说明商品、服务或其它产品有高质量或高等级。

Code: 6860
English Term: quality control
Definition: The inspection, analysis, and other relevant actions taken to provide control over what is being done, manufactured, or fabricated, so that a desirable level of quality is achieved and maintained.&#10;(Source: HARRIS)
Chinese Term: 质量控制
Translation: 通过检查、分析和其它相关活动对正在生产的或制造的产品进行控制，因此可以获得满意的质量。

Code: 11691
English Term: quality objective
Definition: Any goal or target established for a product, service or endeavor that aspires to attain a relatively high grade or level of excellence.&#10;(Source: RHW
Chinese Term: 质量目标
Translation: 对产品和服务设立的目标，希望能做得很好。

Code: 6861
English Term: quality of life
Definition: Quality of life is largely a matter of individual preference and perception and overlaps the concept of social well-being. Generally the emphasis is on the amount and distribution of jointly consumed public goods, such as health care and welfare services, protection against crime, regulation of pollution, preservation of fine landscapes and historic townscapes.
Chinese Term: 生命质量
Translation: 生命质量是在社会福利基础之上的个人喜好和感觉。重点在消费类公众产品的数量和分布，例如健康和福利服务、控制犯罪、污染管理、风景和历史名城的保护。

Code: 11429
English Term: quality standard
Definition:
Chinese Term: 质量标准
Translation:

Code: 6867
English Term: quarry
Definition: An open or surface working or excavation for the extraction of building stone, ore, coal, gravel, or minerals.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 采石场
Translation: 开采建筑用的石头、矿石、煤炭、碎石或矿产。

Code: 6870
English Term: quarrying
Definition: The surface exploitation and removal of stone or mineral deposits from the earth's crust.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 采石
Translation: 从地表开采石头或矿产。

Code: 12471
English Term: quartering
Definition: The act of dismembering the carcass of an animal with the production of organic waste which if improperly disposed cause problems of pollution and fawl smells.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 分尸
Translation: 分割动物的尸体成为有机废物。如果处理不好会引起污染和臭味。

Code: 6882
English Term: race relations
Definition: The associations, tensions or harmony between two or more groups of people distinguished by history, culture, religion or physique: distinctions erroneously construed as being based on consistent biological differences and as representing, in effect, species of a human genus.&#10;(Source: SOC / RHW)
Chinese Term: 种族关系
Translation: 两组或多组人之间的关系、紧张或亲密的程度。这些人群有不同的历史、文化、宗教或体质。这种区别不是基于生理的而是基于人的基因。

Code: 2002
English Term: racking
Definition: The mechanical dewatering of a wet solid by pouring off the liquid without disturbing the underlying sediment or precipitate.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 分离
Translation: 一种给湿的物体脱水的机制，通过脱去液体保留沉积物的方式脱水。

Code: 6883
English Term: radar
Definition: A system using beamed and reflected radiofrequency energy for detecting and locating objects, measuring distance or altitude, navigating, homing, bombing and other purposes.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 雷达
Translation: 一个系统，用光束或反射射频能量的方式发现和定位物体、测量距离和高度，用于导航、归航、投弹等等。

Code: 6884
English Term: radiation
Definition: Emission of any rays from either natural or man-made origins, such as radio waves, the sun's rays, medical X-rays and the fall-out and nuclear wastes produced by nuclear weapons and nuclear energy production. Radiation is usually divided between non-ionizing radiation, such as thermal radiation (heat) and light, and nuclear radiation. Non-ionizing radiation includes ultraviolet radiation from the sun which, although it can damage cells and tissues, does not involve the ionization events of nuclear radiation.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 辐射
Translation: 自然或人为释放的射线，例如无线电波、太阳射线、医疗X射线和核武器和核能源产生的辐射尘和核废物。辐射通常分成非电离辐射，例如热辐射（热）和光，和核辐射。非电离辐射包括来自太阳的紫外线辐射，这种辐射虽然破坏细胞核和组织，但不产生核辐射的电离结果。

Code: 6887
English Term: radiation damage
Definition: Somatic and genetic damage to living organisms caused by exposure to ionizing radiation.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term: 辐射破坏
Translation: 由于暴露在电离辐射下而引起的对生物肉体和基因的破坏。

Code: 6888
English Term: radiation dose
Definition: The total amount of radiation absorbed by material or tissues, in the sense of absorbed dose, exposure dose, or dose equivalent.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 辐射剂量
Translation: 物质或组织吸收的辐射的总量，有吸收剂量、照射剂量或剂量当量的说法。

Code: 6889
English Term: radiation effect
Definition: Prolonged exposure to ionizing radiation from various sources can be harmful. Nuclear radiation from fallout from nuclear weapons or from power stations, background radiation from substances naturally present in the soil, exposure to X-rays can cause radiation sickness. Massive exposure to radiation can kill quickly and any person exposed to radiation is more likely to develop certain types of cancer than other members of the population.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 辐射效果
Translation: 从众多研究资料来看，长时间暴露在电离辐射中是有危害的。从核武器或核电站产生的核辐射尘，从土壤中的物质产生的背景辐射，暴露在X射线中都会引起辐射病。大量暴露在辐射中会很快致死，而且暴露在辐射中比其它的污染更容易致癌。

Code: 6890
English Term: radiation exposure
Definition: The act or state of being subjected to electromagnetic energy strong enough to ionize atoms thereby posing a threat to human health or the environment.&#10;(Source: APD / MHD)
Chinese Term: 辐射暴露
Translation: 遭受强度能够电离原子的电磁能量辐射的行为，因此对人的健康或环境有危害。

Code: 6892
English Term: radiation monitoring
Definition: The periodic or continuous surveillance or analysis of the level of radiant energy present in a given area, to determine that its prescribed amount has not been exceeded or that it meets acceptable safety standards.&#10;(Source: TOE / OMD)
Chinese Term: 辐射监控
Translation: 对给定区域的辐射程度做周期性的或连续的检查或分析，以确定规定的剂量没有超标或符合安全标准。

Code: 6894
English Term: radiation physics
Definition: The study of ionizing radiation and its effects on matter.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 辐射物理学
Translation: 研究电离辐射和它的影响。

Code: 6896
English Term: radiation protection
Definition: Precautionary actions, measures or equipment implemented to guard or defend people, property and natural resources from the harmful effects of ionizing energy.&#10;(Source: MHD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 辐射防护
Translation: 为了保护人员、财产和自然资源免受电离能源的危害，所使用的预防行动、检测或设施。

Code: 6897
English Term: radiation protection law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by  government to establish measures to keep humans and natural resources safe from harmful exposure to energy waves released by nuclear materials, electromagnetic current and other sources.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 辐射防护法
Translation: 由政府制定的联编规则或主体规则，建立相关的方法使人和自然资源免受由核物品、电磁流和其它来源产生的能量波的危害。

Code: 6899
English Term: radiation sickness
Definition: The complex of symptoms characterizing the disease known as radiation injury, resulting from excessive exposure of the whole body (or large part) to ionizing radiation. The earliest of these symptoms are nausea, fatigue, vomiting, and diarrhea, which may be followed by loss of hair (epilation), hemorrhage, inflammation of the mouth and throat, and general loss of energy.&#10;(Source: TDH)
Chinese Term: 辐射病
Translation: 因受到辐射产生的复杂症状的病，是由于全身或身体大部分暴露在电离辐射中引起的。症状最初是恶心、疲劳、呕吐和痢疾，然后可能是脱发（脱毛）、出血、口腔和喉咙的炎症，以及全身乏力。

Code: 6901
English Term: radio
Definition: The process, equipment or programming involved in transmitting and receiving sound signals by electromagnetic waves.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 无线电
Translation: 通过电磁波传输和接收声音信号并使用的过程，及相关设备或程序。

Code: 14874
English Term: radio programme
Definition: A performance or production transmitted in sound signals with electromagnetic waves.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 广播节目
Translation: 通过电磁波传输声音信号的节目或表演。

Code: 6904
English Term: radioactive contamination
Definition: Contamination of a substance, living organism or site caused by radioactive material.&#10;(Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 放射性污染
Translation: 由放射性物质引起的对物品、生物体或场所的污染。

Code: 6908
English Term: radioactive decontamination
Definition: The removal of radioactive contamination which is deposited on surfaces or may have spread throughout a work area. Personnel decontamination is also included. Decontamination methods follow two broad avenues of attack, mechanical and chemical.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 放射性去污
Translation: 去除附着在表面并可能在工作区扩散的放射性污染，也包括人员的去污。去污方法有机械方法和化学方法两种。

Code: 6909
English Term: radioactive dumping
Definition: Waste generated by the emission of particulate or electromagnetic radiation resulting from the decay of the nuclei of unstable elements.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 放射性废弃物
Translation: 由不稳定的原子核衰变导致的微粒或电磁辐射放射产生的废弃物。

Code: 6911
English Term: radioactive emission
Definition: The release of radioactive substances into the environment deriving from nuclear installations and from mining, purification and enrichment operations of radioactive elements.&#10;(Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 放射性发射
Translation: 向环境中释放放射性物质，这些物质来源于核设备和矿产，以及对放射性物质的净化和浓缩操作。

Code: 6912
English Term: radioactive fallout
Definition: The material that descends to the earth or water well beyond the site of a surface or subsurface nuclear explosion.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 放射性尘降物
Translation: 降落到地上或水井中的物质，可以由核爆发所引起，但一般超出了地表或地下的核爆发范围。

Code: 6915
English Term: radioactive pollutant
Definition: A substance undergoing spontaneous decay or disintegration of atomic nuclei and giving off radiant energy in the form of particles or waves, often associated with an explosion of a nuclear weapon or an accidental release from a nuclear power plant, holding facility or transporting container.&#10;(Source: DEE / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 放射性污染物
Translation: 物质的原子核自然分解并以粒子或微波的形式释放射线。这种污染多发生在核武器爆炸或核能工厂、收容所或运输容器的事故中。

Code: 6918
English Term: radioactive substance
Definition: Any substance that contains one or more radionuclides of which the activity or the concentration cannot be disregarded as far as radiation protection is concerned.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 放射性物质
Translation: 包含一到多种放射性核素的物质。这种放射性核素的活性和浓度是辐射保护时要注意的。

Code: 6919
English Term: radioactive tracer
Definition: A radioactive isotope which, when injected into a biological or physical system, can be traced by radiation detection devices, permitting determination of the distribution or location of the substance to which it is attached.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 放射性指示剂
Translation: 一种放射性同位素，当把它注入到生物或物理系统时，能被辐射检测设备追踪，并能检测到它的分布情况或位置。

Code: 6920
English Term: radioactive tracer technique
Definition:
Chinese Term: 放射性指示剂技术
Translation:

Code: 6921
English Term: radioactive waste
Definition: Any waste that emit radiation in excess of normal background level, including the toxic by-products of the nuclear energy industry.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term: 放射性废料
Translation: 任何超过一般程度放射线的废料，包括核能源工业的有毒副产品。

Code: 6923
English Term: radioactive waste management
Definition: The total supervision of the production, handling, processing, storage and transport of materials that contain radioactive nuclides and for which use, reuse or recovery are impractical.&#10;(Source: EIS / HMH)
Chinese Term: 放射性废料管理
Translation: 对包含放射性核且不能用、重用和回收的物质的生产、处理、存放和运输过程的管理。

Code: 6925
English Term: radioactivity
Definition: The property possessed by some atomic nuclei of disintegrating spontaneously, with loss of energy through emission of a charged particle and/or gamma radiation.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 放射性
Translation: 产生于自然分解的原子核，伴随着带电粒子和/或伽马射线的释放而产生的能量衰减。

Code: 12004
English Term: radioelement
Definition: An element that is naturally radioactive.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 放射性元素
Translation: 具有天然放射性元素的物质。

Code: 6928
English Term: radionuclide
Definition: A nuclide that exhibits radioactivity.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 放射性核
Translation: 有放射性的核物质。

Code: 6935
English Term: radon
Definition: A radioactive gaseous element emitted naturally from rocks and minerals where radioactive elements are present. It is released in non-coal mines, e.g. tin, iron, fluorspar, uranium. Radon is an alpha particle emitter as are its decay products and has been indicted as a cause of excessive occurrence of lung cancer in uranium miners. Concern has been expressed at radon levels in some housing usually adjacent to granite rocks or old tin mining regions.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 氡
Translation: 从有放射性物质的石头和矿产中自然释放的放射性气体。产生于非碳的矿，例如锡矿、铁矿、氟石和铀矿。氡衰变产生阿尔法粒子辐射，并被认为是氟石矿的矿工多发肺癌的根源。在临近花岗岩或旧锡矿的地区，氡的浓度应被关注。

Code: 6937
English Term: rag
Definition: Discarded textile waste, either post-consumer waste or pre-consumer waste, such as manufacturing process scraps.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 破布
Translation: 丢弃的纤维性废料，包括用前废料和用后废料，例如生产过程中的废弃物。

Code: 6940
English Term: rail traffic
Definition: The movement and circulation of vehicles transporting goods and people on railroad systems.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 铁路交通
Translation: 铁路系统用交通工具运输物品或人。

Code: 6941
English Term: rail transport
Definition: Transportation of goods and persons by railway.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 铁路运输
Translation: 用铁路运输物品或人。

Code: 6939
English Term: railroad vehicle
Definition:
Chinese Term: 铁路车辆
Translation:

Code: 6942
English Term: railway
Definition: A permanent track composed of a line of parallel metal rails fixed to sleepers, for transport of passengers and goods in trains.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 铁路
Translation: 由安装在枕木上的平行的铁轨组成的永久性轨道，为了用火车运输乘客和物品。

Code: 11276
English Term: railway network
Definition: The whole system of railway distribution in a country.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 铁路网络
Translation: 在一个国家中分布的所有铁路系统。

Code: 11269
English Term: railway station
Definition: A place along a route or line at which a train stops to pick up or let off passengers or goods, especially with ancillary buildings and services.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 火车站
Translation: 靠近铁路线路，火车在这里停靠，上下乘客或货物，一般有辅助的建筑和服务功能。

Code: 6947
English Term: rain
Definition: Precipitation in the form of liquid water drops with diameters greater than 0.5 millimeter.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 下雨
Translation: 以直径超过0.5毫米的水滴降雨。

Code: 6949
English Term: rain forest
Definition: A forest of broad-leaved, mainly evergreen, trees found in continually moist climates in the tropics, subtropics, and some parts of the temperate zones.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 雨林
Translation: 阔叶树林，主要是长青树，生长在热带、亚热带和温带一些地区的持续潮湿的气候中的树木。

Code: 6951
English Term: rain water
Definition: Water which falls as rain from clouds.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 雨水
Translation: 从云中以雨的形式落下的水。

Code: 12273
English Term: rain water sewer system
Definition: Channels for clearing away rain water.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 排雨系统
Translation: 排走雨水的沟渠。

Code: 6950
English Term: rainout
Definition: Process by which particles in the atmosphere act as centres round which water can form drops which then falls as rain.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 雨除
Translation: 水以空气中的微粒为中心形成雨滴然后降雨的过程。

Code: 6953
English Term: raising a site
Definition: The building up of land by the deposition of allochthonous material, such as rocks, gravel, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 建立场所
Translation: 通过放置异地移来的材料，例如石头、砂砾等建设场地。

Code: 6959
English Term: random test
Definition: Tests which do not always yield the same result when repeated under the same conditions.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 随机测试
Translation: 在同样条件下重复试验但不总是得到相同结果的试验。

Code: 6962
English Term: rape (plant)
Definition: A Eurasian cruciferous plant, Brassica napus, that is cultivated for its seeds, which yield a useful oil, and as a fodder plant.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 油菜（植物）
Translation: 一种欧亚十字花科的植物，如甘蓝型油菜，用种子培养，能产油并作为饲料。

Code: 3283
English Term: rapid test
Definition: Tests performed in the medical field whose results are available very quickly.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 快速测试
Translation: 在医学领域用到的测试，测试结果能很快产生。

Code: 6963
English Term: rapid transit train
Definition:
Chinese Term: 快速中转列车
Translation:

Code: 6965
English Term: rare species
Definition: Species which have a restricted world range.&#10;(Source: UNUN)
Chinese Term: 稀有物种
Translation: 世界上种群数量有限的物种。

Code: 14922
English Term: raster
Definition: One of the two major types of internal data organization used in GIS. Raster systems superimpose a regular grid over the area of interest and associate each cell-or pixel, to use the image term- with one or more data records. The values associated with each grid cell may represent either real values or any scalar or nominal data values associated with the cell coordinates. Among the strengths of the raster method is its ability to accept data directly from remote sensing systems and to represent transitional information. Raster systems tend to be relatively storage-intensive and this imposes practical limits on the area of coverage, the resolution, or both of these. Capacity constraints are, however, becoming less significant as computer memory and storage become more powerful and as data compression techniques become more readily available.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 光栅
Translation: GIS中用到的两种主要内部数据组织方式中的一种。光栅系统在感兴趣的地方附加有规律的网格并且关联每个单元或像素，使图像能在一个或多个数据记录中使用。与每个网格单元相关联的值能描述真实的值或与单元坐标相关的标量或标定数据。光栅方法的优点是能直接从远处的传感系统接收数据，并能描述过渡性的信息。光栅系统通常要求的储存容量需求度高，并在覆盖范围或分辨率或这两者上有实现上的限制。然而，当计算机存储变得更强大和数据压缩技术更好用的时候，这些能力上的限制就变得不那么重要。

Code: 14927
English Term: raster to vector
Definition: Methods to convert remotely sensed raster data to vector format. A number of raster-to-vector and vector-to-raster conversion procedures have been developed and introduced to current releases of many GIS packages.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 光栅到矢量
Translation: 把远程感应得到的光栅数据转变成矢量格式的方法。一些光栅到矢量和矢量到光栅的转换过程已经被开发，并应用于很多现有的GIS包中。

Code: 11130
English Term: rate
Definition: The amount of change in some quantity during a time interval divided by the length of the time interval.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 比率
Translation: 在一定时间间隔内数量上的变化。

Code: 6967
English Term: raw material
Definition: A crude, unprocessed or partially processed material used as feedstock for a processing operation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 原材料
Translation: 原始、没有加工过的或部分加工的材料，用作生产原料。

Code: 6968
English Term: raw material consumption
Definition: The developed countries depend on a stable supply of raw materials for their industries. Total resource requirements are increasing rapidly over the entire world. In developed countries, although population is increasing slowly, per capita use is increasing rapidly, while the opposite is happening in developing countries. Traditionally raw materials have been classified as non-renewable resources, but a distinction may be important between "loosable" resources, such as oil and coal, and "non-loosable" resources, such as metals, which can be used several times over by recycling processes.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 原材料消费
Translation: 发达国家依靠原材料为它们的工业提供稳定的材料供给。整个世界总的资源需求增加很快。在发达国家，尽管人口增加很慢，人均使用增加却很快，这和发展中国家相反。传统的原材料属于不可再生资源，“松散的”资源，例如油和煤等和“非松散的”资源，例如金属等区别很大，“非松散的”资源能通过回收重用多次。

Code: 6970
English Term: raw material securing
Definition: Measures used to ensure the provision of or the access to crude, unprocessed or partially processed materials used as feedstock for processing or manufacturing.&#10;(Source: RHWa /  MHD)
Chinese Term: 原材料保障
Translation: 保证能获得原始、没有加工过的或部分加工的，用作生产或制造原料的材料的方法。

Code: 8784
English Term: raw water
Definition: Water that has not been treated.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 未净化的水
Translation: 未经处理的水。

Code: 6975
English Term: reaction kinetics
Definition: That branch of physical chemistry concerned with the mechanisms and rates of chemical reactions.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 反应动力学
Translation: 物理化学的一个分支，涉及化学反应的机制和比率。

Code: 6977
English Term: reactor
Definition: A device that introduces either inductive or capacitive reactance into a circuit, such as a coil or capacitor.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 反应堆
Translation: 在电路中产生电感性或电容性电抗的设备，例如线圈或电容。

Code: 6978
English Term: reactor safety
Definition: Those studies and activities that seek to minimise the risk of a nuclear reactor accident.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 反应堆安全
Translation: 寻求最小化核反应堆事故风险的研究活动。

Code: 6982
English Term: reasonableness
Definition:
Chinese Term: 合理性
Translation:

Code: 12325
English Term: reclamation industry
Definition: Industry for the transformation of solid waste into useful products.&#10;(Source: GRN)
Chinese Term: 回收行业
Translation: 把固体废料转变成有用的产品的行业。

Code: 6988
English Term: recombinant DNA technology
Definition: Techniques and practical applications associated with recombinant DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid artificially introduced into a cell that alters the genotype and phenotype of the cell and is replicated along with the natural DNA).&#10;(Source: DELFIN /  KOREN)
Chinese Term: DNA技术
Translation: 重组DNA的技术或实践（人工地把脱氧核糖核酸引入细胞核中，改变细胞核的基因型和显型并能复制原来的DNA）。

Code: 6989
English Term: recommendation
Definition: Recommendation refers to an action which is advisory in nature rather than one having any binding effect.
Chinese Term: 推荐
Translation: 推荐是一种建议行为，而不是靠强力的行为。

Code: 6992
English Term: recording of substances
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 内容记录
Translation: 不需要定义

Code: 6997
English Term: recovery of landscape
Definition: Reclamation measures taken to restore the environmental quality level of a landscape to its predisturbed condition.&#10;(Source: AQDa)
Chinese Term: 风景恢复
Translation: 使风景区的环境质量恢复到未开发之前的状态的方法。

Code: 7000
English Term: recovery plan
Definition: A formulated or systematic method for the restoration of natural resources or the reuse of materials and objects.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 恢复计划
Translation: 对自然资源的恢复或对物品重用的有计划的或系统的方法。

Code: 7001
English Term: recreation
Definition: Activities that promote refreshment of health or spirits by relaxation and enjoyment.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 娱乐活动
Translation: 通过放松或娱乐提高身体或精神健康的活动。

Code: 7003
English Term: recreational area
Definition: A piece of publicly owned land, especially in a town, used for sports and games.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 娱乐地点
Translation: 作为运动或游戏的公共场所，特别是在城镇中。

Code: 7009
English Term: recyclability
Definition: Characteristic of materials that still have useful physical or chemical properties after serving their original purpose and that can, therefore, be reused or remanufactured into additional products.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 再循环能力
Translation: 一种物质特性，在物质常规使用后任然存在有用的物理或化学性质，能被重用或重新制成其它产品。

Code: 7010
English Term: recyclable plastic
Definition: Plastic waste that can be transformed into new products.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 回收塑料
Translation: 能变成新产品的塑料废料。

Code: 7012
English Term: recycled material
Definition: Waste materials that are transformed into new products in such a manner that the original products may lose their identity.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 回收材料
Translation: 能变成新产品的废料，在转变过程中材料可能丧失它们原来的特性。

Code: 7014
English Term: recycled paper
Definition: Paper that has been separated from the solid waste stream for utilization as a raw material in the manufacture of a new product. Not all paper in the waste stream is recyclable. It may be heavily contaminated or otherwise unusable.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 回收纸
Translation: 纸从固体垃圾中区别出来，可以作为原材料用于生产新的产品。不是所有作为废料的纸都可以回收，可能由于纸的重度污染或其它原因而不能被回收使用。

Code: 7015
English Term: recycling
Definition: A resource recovery method involving the collection and treatment of a waste product for use as raw material in the manufacture of the same or a similar product.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 回收
Translation: 一种资源回收方法，包括为了在制作相同或相似产品中作为原材料使用而搜集和处理废料。

Code: 7019
English Term: recycling management and waste law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by government to establish and regulate provisions for the minimization of waste generation through recovery and reprocessing of re-usable products.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 回收管理和废料法
Translation: 由政府制定和规范的联合规则或规则主体，通过回收和重新处理能重新使用的产品来最小化废料产量。

Code: 7021
English Term: recycling potential
Definition:
Chinese Term: 回收潜力
Translation:

Code: 7023
English Term: recycling ratio
Definition:
Chinese Term: 回收比率
Translation:

Code: 14985
English Term: red list
Definition: The series of publications produced by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN). They provide an inventory on the threat to rare plants and animal species. Information includes status, geographical distribution, population size, habitat and breeding rate. The books also contain the conservation measures, if any, that have been taken to protect the species. There are five categories of rarity status: endangered species; vulnerable organisms, which are those unlikely to adapt to major environmental effects; rare organisms, which are those at risk because there are few of them in the world, such as plants which only grow on mountain peaks or on islands; out of danger species, which were formerly in the above categories, but have had the threat removed because of conservation actions; and indeterminate species, which are the plants and animals probably at risk, although not enough is known about them to assess their status.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 红色名单
Translation: 自然和自然资源保护国际联盟(IUCN)出版的一套出版物。他们出版了濒临灭绝的植物和动物的详细目录。信息包括状态、地理分布、数量、习性和繁殖率。如果已经有任何已经用到的保护种群的方法，书中也有记录。稀有状态分成五类：濒临灭绝的物种；脆弱的物种，指那些不能适应主要的环境影响的物种；稀少物种，指那些因为存在量很少而有风险的物种，例如只生长在山峰上的或岛上的植物；不危险的物种，指不在前面几类中的物种，因为保护行动解除了威胁；不确定的物种，指可能有危险的植物和动物，但对它们的物种情况了解不够，不能评价它们的状态。

Code: 7029
English Term: red tide
Definition: Sea water which is covered or discoloured by the sudden growth of algal bloom or by a great increase in single-celled organisms, dinoflagellates. Red tides are often fatal to many forms of marine life and, in some cases, can result in human deaths because the dinoflagellates are eaten by clams and mussels which concentrate the paralysing toxins which they produce.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 红潮
Translation: 海水被突然大量生长的海藻或大量增加的单细胞生物或甲藻覆盖或染色。

Code: 7028
English Term: redress
Definition: An administrative or legal remedy that attempts to restore a person to his or her original or expected position prior to loss or injury, including breach of contract.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 赔偿
Translation: 行政或法律的补救办法，帮助人恢复到失败或受伤（包括违约）之前的状态或希望的状态。

Code: 7032
English Term: reed
Definition: Any of various types of tall stiff grass-like plants growing together in groups near water.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 芦苇
Translation:在水边丛生的高的硬的像草一样的植物。

Code: 7034
English Term: reef
Definition: A line of rocks in the tidal zone of a coast, submerged at high water but partly uncovered at low water.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 暗礁
Translation: 海岸的潮汐区的一排岩石，在水位高时被水淹没，在水位低时出现。

Code: 14885
English Term: reference service
Definition: The provision of aid by library staff trained to interpret library materials and library organizational structures to meet the informational, educational, cultural, recreational or research needs of the library's clients.&#10;(Source: OED /  LFS)
Chinese Term: 资料服务
Translation: 为满足图书馆客户的信息、教育、文化、娱乐或研究的需求，由受过训练并能解释图书馆资源和图书馆的组织结构的图书管理人员所提供的帮助。

Code: 14881
English Term: referral information
Definition: Directions leading someone to another source that is known to provide knowledge or assistance on the specified topic or request.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 供查询的信息
Translation: 引导某人到另一个资源的目录，那个资源能提供相应知识或有助于确定主题或需求。

Code: 14880
English Term: referral information system
Definition: A coordinated assemblage of people, devices or other resources organized to provide directions leading people to sources known to provide knowledge or assistance on a specified topic or request.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 信息查询系统
Translation: 人、设备或其它资源的集合，它们组织在一起引导人们找到相应的知识，或有助于确定主题或需求的资源。

Code: 7035
English Term: refinery
Definition: A factory for the purification of some crude material such as ore, sugar, oil, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 精炼厂
Translation: 对原材料，例如矿石、糖、油等等，进行净化的工厂。

Code: 7036
English Term: refining
Definition: The processing of raw material to remove impurities. &#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 精炼
Translation: 对原材料去除不纯部分的过程。

Code: 7037
English Term: reflection
Definition: The return of waves or particles from surfaces on which they are incident.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 反射
Translation: 把波或微粒子返回给产生它们的表面。

Code: 7038
English Term: reflectometry
Definition: The study of the reflectance of light or other radiant energy.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Chinese Term: 反射测定法
Translation: 对光的反射或其它辐射能量反射的研究。

Code: 6979
English Term: reforestation
Definition: The planting of trees in forest areas which have been cleared. Reforestation has become increasingly important for preventing or reversing environmental degradation and for helping to maximize economic returns on commercially forested lands.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 重新造林
Translation: 在树林被砍掉的地方重新种树。重新造林对阻止环境退化和促进最大化商业林地的经济回报有越来越重要的意义。

Code: 7042
English Term: refrigerant
Definition: A substance that by undergoing a change in phase (liquid to gas, gas to liquid) releases or absorbs a large latent heat in relation to its volume, and thus effects a considerable cooling effect.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 冷却剂
Translation: 一种物质，能在改变物理状态（液体到气体，气体到液体）时释放或吸收相对它的体积来说很大的热量，因此起到降温效果。

Code: 7044
English Term: refrigeration
Definition: The cooling of substances, usually food, below the environmental temperature for preservative purposes. Refrigeration is responsible for the largest and fastest-growing use of CFCs in the developing world. The industrial countries, and some developing countries, have taken exceptional steps to control and, eventually, ban the production of CFCs and other ozone-depleting materials by the year 2000. However, many developing nations have not signed the Montreal Protocol because they are afraid that the cost of changing over to alternative, ozone-friendly technology will be too high.&#10;(Source: MGHa /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 冷藏设备
Translation: 为了保存物体，通常将食物降温到低于环境温度。冷藏设备的使用导致发展中国家大量使用CFC。2000年，工业国家和一些发展中国家通过排除氟利昂的措施控制和阻止CFC和其它破坏臭氧的物质的生产。然而，很多发展中国家没有签署蒙特利尔议定书因为他们担心使用替代的不破坏臭氧的技术成本太高。

Code: 7043
English Term: refrigeration industry
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 冷藏工业
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7045
English Term: refrigerator
Definition: An appliance, a cabinet, or a room for storing food or other substances at a low temperature.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 冰箱
Translation: 为了低温存放食物或其它物品的设备、柜子或房间。

Code: 7046
English Term: refuge
Definition: A restricted and isolated area in which plants and animals persisted during a period of continental climatic change that made surrounding areas uninhabitable; especially an ice-free or unglaciated area within or close to a continental ice sheet or upland ice cap, where hardy biotas eked out an existence during a glacial phase. It later served as a center of dispersal for the repopulation of surrounding areas after climatic readjustment.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 避难处
Translation: 限制和独立的地点。当大陆性气候转变期间，周围的地方不能居住，植物和动物可以在那里躲避。特别是在大陆性冰层或高地冰盖地区，冰川期生物群很难存活，在这些地区或邻近这些地区，没有冰或没有冰川的地方可以保存植物或动物。这些地点以后能作为气候重新调整后对周围地区生物恢复的中心。

Code: 7047
English Term: refugee
Definition: A person who is outside his country of origin and who, due to well-founded fear of persecution, is unable or unwilling to avail himself of that country protection.&#10;(Source: GUNN)
Chinese Term: 难民
Translation: 不在其原籍国，由于有理由担心受到迫害，不能或不愿受该国保护的人。

Code: 7050
English Term: refuse collection vehicle
Definition: Special vehicles designed and equipped for the collection of wastes and their transportation to a waste disposal site.&#10;(Source: MANCOSa)
Chinese Term: 垃圾收集车
Translation: 为废料收集和运输到废料处理场而特别设计和装备的车辆。

Code: 7051
English Term: refuse derived fuel
Definition: Fuel produced from domestic refuse, after glass and metals have been removed from it, by compressing it to form briquettes used to fuel boilers.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 垃圾衍生燃料
Translation: 从生活垃圾中生产出的燃料，这些垃圾不包括玻璃和金属，它通过压缩定型用于燃料型锅炉

Code: 7681
English Term: refuse shredder
Definition: A machine used to break up refuse material into smaller pieces by tearing and/or impact.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 垃圾粉碎机
Translation: 通过撕裂和/或压缩把垃圾材料碾碎成小块的的机器

Code: 7056
English Term: refuse-sludge compost
Definition: Compost derived by the biodegradation of the organic constituents of solid wastes and wastewater sludges. The major public health issues associated with composting using solid wastes mixed with sewage sludge are pathogens, heavy metal, and odors. The heat generated during composting, as a result of the activities of thermophilic organisms, is capable of killing bacteria, viruses, protozoa and helminths present in sewage sludge. The metallic elements in sludge of greatest concern to human health are cadmium, lead, arsenic, selenium, and mercury. Only cadmium is normally found in sewage sludge at levels which, when applied to soils, can be absorbed by plants, and accumulate in edible parts, thereby entering the food chain.&#10;(Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 污泥堆肥
Translation: 堆肥产生于对固体废物和废水污泥中的有机成分的生物降解。用固体废物混合污水污泥进行堆肥产生的主要公共健康问题是致病、重金属和异味。堆肥过程中产生的热量是一种嗜热生物活动的结果，能够杀死污水污泥中的细菌、病毒、原生动物和蠕虫。污泥中和人体健康最相关的金属元素是镉、铅、砷、硒和汞。通常在污水污泥中只有镉的含量会对土壤产生影响，会被植物吸收，当植物被动物食用时进入食物链。

Code: 7057
English Term: regeneration
Definition: The renewing or reuse of materials such as activated carbon, single ion exchange resins, and filter beds by appropriate means to remove organics, metals, solids, etc.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 再生
Translation: 更新或重用材料例如活性炭、单离子交换树脂、过滤床，通过适当方式消除有机物、重金属、固体等。

Code: 7059
English Term: region
Definition: A designated area or an administrative division of a city, county or larger geographical territory that is formulated according to some biological, political, economic or demographic criteria.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 地区
Translation: 指定地区或一个城市的行政区划，县或更大的地理范围，这种划分是根据生物、政治、经济或人口标准。

Code: 6766
English Term: regional authority
Definition: The power of a government agency or its administrators to administer and implement laws and government policies applicable to a specific geographical area, usually falling under the jurisdiction of two or more states.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 地区管理局
Translation: 一个政府机构或它的权力机构，该机构管理和执行适用于特定地理区域的法律和政府政策。机构通常在两个或多个省的管辖范围内。

Code: 7063
English Term: regional convention
Definition: An assembly of national, political party or organizational delegates representing persons or the interests of a specific geographic area, or the pact or the agreement that arises from such an assembly.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 区域性公约
Translation: 一组国家的，政党的或组织的代表。这些代表体现某个特定的地理区域中的人或利益，或由国家、政党或组织一起达成的协议。

Code: 7066
English Term: regional development
Definition: The progress or advancement for a large geographical territory or a designated division of a country or state, particularly in economic growth that leads to modernization or industrialization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 区域性发展
Translation: 一个大的地理区域或一个国家或州的特定部分的发展，特别指导致现代化或工业化的经济增长。

Code: 7070
English Term: regional law
Definition:
Chinese Term: 地区法
Translation:

Code: 10200
English Term: regional natural park
Definition: A park operated and managed by a region.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 地区自然公园
Translation: 由地区运营和管理的公园。

Code: 7073
English Term: regional plan
Definition: The plan for a region according to some physiographic, biological, political, administrative, economic, demographic, or other criteria.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 地区计划
Translation: 根据地形、生物、政治、行政、经济、人口、或其它标准制定的地区的计划。

Code: 7075
English Term: regional planning
Definition: The step by step method and process of defining, developing and outlining various possible courses of actions to meet existing or future needs, goals and objectives for a designated area or an administrative division of a city, county or larger geographical area.&#10;(Source: RHW / BLD)
Chinese Term: 地区规划
Translation: 规定、发展和概括各种可能的行为，并遵循一定步骤方法和过程。这些方法和过程可以满足对指定的区域或城市、国家或更大的地理区域的现在和未来做行政规划的需要、目标和目的。

Code: 7077
English Term: regional regulation
Definition: A body of rules or orders prescribed by government, management or an international organization or treaty pertaining to or effective within a specific territory of one or more states.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 地区规章
Translation: 由政府、管理机构或国际组织或条约制定的一套规则或规定，规则在一个或多个国家内有效。

Code: 7079
English Term: regional statistics
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 地区统计
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7080
English Term: regional structure
Definition: The organization or arrangement of a large geographical territory or a designated division of a country or state that may be formulated according to some administrative, biological, political, economic or demographic criteria.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 区域结构
Translation: 一个大的地理区域或一个国家或州的指定部分的组织，该组织可根据一些行政、生物、政治、经济或人口的标准形成。

Code: 10244
English Term: registered site
Definition: Area which is officially registered because of its unique features; a description is provided concerning its location, size, latitude, longitude, orientation, elevation, boundaries, wildlife, hydrological and soil characteristics, etc.&#10;(Source: IUCNa)
Chinese Term: 注册的位置
Translation: 由于其独特的特性而由官方注册的地区。描述了地区的位置、大小、纬度、经度、方位、海拔、边界、野生动植物、水文和土壤特性等。

Code: 7082
English Term: registration
Definition: An instance of or a certificate attesting to the fact of entering in an official list various pieces of information in order to facilitate regulation or authorization, including one's name, contact information and, in some instances, data concerning a specific possession or property.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 注册
Translation: 一个实例或证书，证明包含各种信息的正式列表，这个列表的目的是方便监管或授权，列表中包括人的姓名、联络资料，并在某些情况下，数据包括具体的财产。

Code: 2386
English Term: registration obligation
Definition: The duty to formally enroll with a government agency or an authority in order to be granted certain rights, particularly trademark or copyright privileges, or the  permission to sell and distribute a product.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 注册责任
Translation: 在政府机构或主管部门正式登记的义务，以便获得某些权利，特别是商标或版权的权限，或允许销售和分销产品的权利。

Code: 7083
English Term: registration proceeding
Definition: The course of action or record in which an individual, company or an organization formally enrolls with a government agency or an authority in order to be granted certain rights, particularly trademark or copyright privileges, or the permission to sell and distribute a product.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 注册程序
Translation: 一组行动或纪录，在行动中个人、公司或机构为了被赋予一定的权利，特别是商标或版权的权限，或允许销售和分销产品，正式在政府机关或主管当局登记。

Code: 11514
English Term: regulation
Definition: The act of regulating; a rule or order prescribed for management or government; a regulating principle; a precept. Rule of order prescribed by superior or competent authority relating to action on those under its control.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 管理
Translation: 管理的行为；管理部门或政府下达的规则或命令；规定的原则；戒律。上级或权力部门制定的程序规则。

Code: 13273
English Term: regulation of agricultural production
Definition: A body of rules or orders prescribed by government, management or an international organization or treaty pertaining to the cultivation of land, raising crops, or feeding, breeding and raising livestock.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 农业生产的调控
Translation: 由政府、管理部门或国际组织或条约制定的一套规则或规定，主要关于土地耕种、培养农作物、或饲养、繁殖和提高牲畜数量。

Code: 7086
English Term: regulation on maximum permissible limits
Definition: A body of rules or orders prescribed by a government or an international organization or treaty establishing levels of hazardous materials in the environment or in ingestible substances beyond which human exposure is deemed health-threatening.&#10;(Source: SPR)
Chinese Term: 规管最大允许限度
Translation: 由政府或国际组织或条约建立的一种规则或规定，规范在环境中或在可摄取的物质中有害物质的标准，如果超过这一标准人们会受到健康威胁。

Code: 7089
English Term: regulative law
Definition:
Chinese Term: 调节法
Translation:

Code: 7090
English Term: regulatory control
Definition: Government supervision over the obligations and rights of an industry or enterprise for the purpose of providing the public with services that are considered important, vital or necessary to most members of a community or area.&#10;(Source: DAM)
Chinese Term: 制度
Translation: 政府对一个行业或企业的义务和权利进行监督，为公众提供重要的、关键的或必需的服务。

Code: 7091
English Term: rehabilitation
Definition: A conservation measure involving the correction of past abuses that have impaired the productivity of the resources base.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 康复
Translation: 一种保护措施，对过去损害资源基础设施导致生产力下降的行为的校正。

Code: 7092
English Term: rehousing
Definition: To provide with new or different housing.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 安置
Translation: 提供新的或不同的住所。

Code: 7093
English Term: reintroduction
Definition: Reintroduction of exterminated species in an area; it is bound to fail if the chosen animal became extinct in the area too long ago and if the area itself has undergone too many changes. Reintroduction needs years of careful planning - the approval of local population, technical conditions of the release, feeding system, protection and breeding control - and even then some unexpected problems may arise.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 重新引入
Translation: 在一个地区重新引入消失的物种；如果所选择的动物很久以前就在该地区消失了，或该地区的状况发生了太多变化，这种引入注定是要失败的。重新引入需要多年的精心计划——本地人口条件允许、技术条件、饲养系统、保护和繁殖控制——甚至可能会出现一些意想不到的问题。

Code: 14897
English Term: relational database
Definition: A collection of digital information items organized as a set of formally described tables from which the information can be accessed or reassembled in different ways without reorganizing the tables.&#10;(Source: WIC)
Chinese Term: 关系型数据库
Translation: 以一组正则表达式描述的表的形式来组织数字信息的集合。通过表，信息可以通过不同的方式被访问和重组，而不用重新组织表。

Code: 7097
English Term: release of organisms
Definition: The release of organisms in the environment creates the risk that once released they may exhibit some previously unknown pathogenicity, might take over from some naturally occurring bacteria or pass on some unwanted trait to such indigenous bacteria.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 有机体释放
Translation: 在环境中有机体的释放造成的风险。一旦释放，可能出现一些以前未知的致病性，可能会借助一些自然产生的细菌，或对原有的细菌增加某些不需要的特性。

Code: 10176
English Term: relief (land)
Definition: The physical shape, configuration or general unevenness of a part of the Earth's surface, considered with reference to variation of height and slope or to irregularities of the land surface; the elevation or difference in elevation, considered collectively, of a land surface.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 山脊（土地）
Translation: 地球表面的物理形状、构造或不平坦的区域，考虑到参考变化的高度和坡度或地表的不规则。综合考虑地表情况时，在高度上的升高或许不同。

Code: 7099
English Term: religion
Definition: The expression of man's belief in and reverence for a superhuman power recognized as the creator and governor of the universe.
Chinese Term: 宗教
Translation: 人对信仰的表达和对超人类力量例如宇宙的诞生和管理者的崇敬。

Code: 7102
English Term: remote sensing
Definition: 1) The scientific detection, recognition, inventory and analysis of land and water area by the use of distant sensors or recording devices such as photography, thermal scanners, radar, etc. &#10;2) Complex of techniques for the remote measure of electromagnetic energy emitted by objects.&#10;(Source: LANDY /  ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 遥感
Translation: 1）通过远程传感器或记录设备（如摄影设备、热扫描仪、雷达等）来进行科学探测、识别、归类和分析陆地、水域。2）用于远程度量物体发出的电磁能量的复杂技术。

Code: 14938
English Term: remote sensing centre
Definition: Centre where remote sensing data are stored, handled and analyzed.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 遥感中心
Translation: 存储、处理和分析遥感数据的中心

Code: 7103
English Term: removal
Definition: General term indicating the elimination of substances from a medium or from the environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 移除
Translation: 表示从介质或环境中删除某物质的通用术语。

Code: 7104
English Term: renaturation
Definition: A process of returning natural ecosystems or habitats to their original structure and species composition. Restoration requires a detailed knowledge of the original species, ecosystem functions and interacting processes involved.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 复原
Translation: 自然生态系统或生活环境恢复到原来的结构和物种构成的过程。实施该过程需要详细地了解原有的物种、生态系统的功能和这些物种之间交互的过程。

Code: 7107
English Term: renewable energy source
Definition: Energy sources that do not rely on fuels of which there are only finite stocks. The most widely used renewable source is hydroelectric power; other renewable sources are biomass energy, solar energy, tidal energy, wave energy, and wind energy; biomass energy does not avoid the danger of the greenhouse effect.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 可再生能源
Translation: 不依赖于数量有限的矿石资源的能源。最广泛使用的可再生能源是氢能源；其它可再生能源包括生物能、太阳能、潮汐能、洋流能、风能；但生物能源不能避免温室效应。

Code: 7084
English Term: renewable raw material
Definition: Resources that have a natural rate of availability and yield a continual flow of services which may be consumed in any time period without endangering future consumption possibilities as long as current use does not exceed net renewal during the period under consideration.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 可再生材料
Translation: 能以一定速度再生的资源，当前只要不过度使用，就不会影响到未来对该材料的使用。

Code: 7108
English Term: renewable resource
Definition: Resources capable of being continuously renewed or replaced through such processes as organic reproduction and cultivation such as those practiced in agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 可再生资源
Translation: 可以持续更新（如在农业、畜牧业、林业和渔业经常使用的有性繁殖、培育）的资源。

Code: 7110
English Term: rental housing
Definition: Dwelling places occupied by tenants who make periodic payments to landlords or owners for use of the facilities as residences.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 出租房
Translation: 租户定期向房东缴纳租金而获得居住权的房子。

Code: 7112
English Term: repair business
Definition: Any commercial activity, position or site that involves work in restoring or fixing some material thing or structure, such as by replacing parts or putting together something torn, broken or detached.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 修理行业
Translation: 任何用于修理的商业活动、位置或地点，例如替换某些部分或把一些破损的、拆开的部分装在一起。

Code: 7114
English Term: replacement
Definition: Substitution of an atom or atomic group with a different one.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 代替
Translation: 代替原子或原子群。

Code: 7115
English Term: replacement cost
Definition: The amount of money involved to replace or have an item take the place of another item.&#10;(Source: EFP)
Chinese Term: 替换成本
Translation: 替换或由某一项代替另一项的总的花费。

Code: 8069
English Term: report on the state of the environment
Definition: A written account on the level of integrity and conditions of the ecosystem and natural resources in a given region, usually presented by an official person or body mandated to protect human health and the environment in that region.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 环境状况报告
Translation: 指定地区的生态系统和自然资源情况和完善程度的书面说明。通常由政府官员或负责保护该地区人民健康和环境的单位提供。

Code: 13017
English Term: report to the minister
Definition: A written account or statement describing in detail observations or the results of an inquiry into an event or situation and presented to any person appointed or elected to a high-level position within some political entity.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 向部长报告
Translation: 说明事件详细调查结果的书面声明，说明当选或被任命为一个政治实体的高层人员的情况。

Code: 7116
English Term: reporting process
Definition:
Chinese Term: 报告过程
Translation:

Code: 7118
English Term: representation
Definition: Any conduct or action undertaken on behalf of a person, group, business or government, often as an elected or appointed voice.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 陈述
Translation: 代表个人、群体、业务或政府的行为，通常作为选举或任命的呼声。

Code: 11627
English Term: repression
Definition: The act, as by power or authority, of arresting or inhibiting the communication of ideas or facts as expressed in a practice, movement, publication or piece of evidence in a court proceeding.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 镇压
Translation: 权力或权威机构的行为，逮捕个人或抑制人们的想法或交流。这些想法或事实通过实践、运动、出版发行或在法庭诉讼的证据中表达。

Code: 7119
English Term: reprocessing
Definition: Restoration of contaminated nuclear fuel to a usable condition.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 再生
Translation: 把被污染的核燃料恢复到可以使用的状态。

Code: 7120
English Term: reproduction (biological)
Definition: Any of various processes, either sexual or asexual, by which an animal or plant produces one or more individuals similar to itself.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 复制（生物的）
Translation: 通过不同的过程，可以是有性或无性的，动物或植物产生一个或多个和自己相似的个体。

Code: 7122
English Term: reproductive manipulation
Definition: The technology involved in altering in some prescribed way the genetic constitution of an organism. Typically "useful" genes, i.e. very short sequence of DNA, are isolated from one organism and inserted into the DNA of a bacterium of yeast. These microorganisms multiply rapidly and can be cultured easily, enabling large quantities of the gene product to be obtained. Reproductive manipulation has been used for the large-scale production of antibiotics, enzymes, and hormones (e.g. insulin). Organisms into which foreign DNA has been artificially inserted are called "transgenic organisms".&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 繁殖操作
Translation: 一种改变组织基因的技术。特别是“有用”的基因，如：将从一个组织分离出来的，很短的DNA序列片段植入酵母菌的DNA中。这些微组织可以很快地被培养，从而得到大量的基因产物。繁殖操作已经被应用于大规模抗体生产、酶的生产和激素的生产（如胰岛素）。接受移植的载体叫做“转基因组织”。

Code: 7124
English Term: reptile
Definition: A class of terrestrial vertebrates, characterized by the lack of hair, feathers, and mammary glands; the skin is covered with scales, they have a three chambered heart and the pleural and peritoneal cavities are continuous.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 爬虫
Translation: 一类陆生脊索动物，没有毛发、羽毛、乳腺；体表被鳞，心脏分为三个腔，胸膜孔和腹膜孔相连。

Code: 7126
English Term: rescue service
Definition: Service organized to provide immediate assistance to persons injured or in distress.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 救援服务
Translation: 为受伤的人或病人提供紧急援助的服务。

Code: 10106
English Term: rescue system
Definition: Any series of procedures and devices used by trained personnel to provide immediate assistance to persons who are in danger or injured.&#10;(Source: GT2 / HMD)
Chinese Term: 救援系统
Translation:在危险中为伤员提供医疗救助的人员的培训过程和相关设备

Code: 7127
English Term: research
Definition: Scientific investigation aimed at discovering and applying new facts, techniques and natural laws.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 研究
Translation: 以发现和应用新真相、技术和自然规律为目的科学研究。

Code: 7129
English Term: research centre
Definition: Place where systematic investigation to establish facts or principles or to collect information on a subject is performed.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 研究中心
Translation: 一个地点，在这里可以从事系统的研究活动，包括在某个学科领域找到真相或原理，以及搜集信息。

Code: 2568
English Term: research of the effects
Definition: Investigation carried out to assess the results deriving from an action or condition; general term applying to many different fields.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 对结果的研究
Translation: 为评估某项活动或条件的结果进行的调查。是一个在很多领域常用的术语。

Code: 13296
English Term: research policy
Definition:
Chinese Term: 研究策略
Translation:

Code: 7135
English Term: research project
Definition: Proposal, plan or design containing the necessary information and data for conducting a specific survey.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 研究项目
Translation: 包含进行特定调查所必需的信息和数据的提案、计划或设计。

Code: 10201
English Term: reserve
Definition: Any area of land or water that has been set aside for a special purpose, often to prevent or reduce harm to its wildlife and ecosystems.&#10;(Source: RHW / DOE)
Chinese Term: 保护区
Translation: 为了特定目的所保留的土地或水域，通常是为了阻止或减少对野生动物和生态环境的伤害。

Code: 7138
English Term: reservoir
Definition: An artificial or natural storage place for water, such as a lake or pond, from which the water may be withdrawn as for irrigation, municipal water supply, or flood control.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 水库
Translation: 人工或自然存水的地点，例如湖或池塘。可以从这里抽水灌溉、城市供给用水或控制洪水。

Code: 7143
English Term: residential area
Definition: Area that has only private houses, not offices and factories.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 居住区
Translation: 只有私人住房没有办公室和工厂的地方。

Code: 7146
English Term: residential area with traffic calmings
Definition: Residential zones where raised areas are built across roads so that vehicles are forced to move more slowly along it.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 交通减速的居住区
Translation: 居住区，路周围有突起物强制车辆慢行。

Code: 7144
English Term: residential building
Definition: A building allocated for residence.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 居住建筑
Translation: 为居住建造的建筑。

Code: 7149
English Term: residual amount of water
Definition: Amount of water left in a water course after it has fed a hydropower plant in order to maintain a satisfactory dry-weather-flow for allowing the survival of biotic communities.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 水剩余量
Translation: 水力发电厂用过之后的水道中水的流量，这也是为了保持满足生物区生存需要的旱季流量。

Code: 6146
English Term: residual pesticide
Definition: A pesticide remaining in the environment for a fairly long time, continuing to be effective for days, weeks, and months.&#10;(Source: HMD)
Chinese Term: 残留性农药
Translation: 在环境中保留时间相当长的农药，有效时间持续达几天、几周和几个月。

Code: 7155
English Term: residual risk
Definition: Remaining potential for harm to persons, property or the environment following all possible efforts to reduce predictable hazards.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 遗留风险
Translation: 可能对人、财产或环境产生的遗留危害，要通过所有努力降低可预见的危害。

Code: 7156
English Term: residual waste
Definition: Material left after any waste treatment process, including industrial, urban, agricultural, mining or other similar treatments.&#10;(Source: ERG / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 残余废料
Translation: 废料处理过程后剩下的物质，包括工业的、城市的、农业的、矿物的和其它相似的处理。

Code: 12441
English Term: residual waste sludge
Definition: The excess, unusable semi-solids or sediment resulting from a wastewater treatment or industrial process.&#10;(Source: RHW / TOE)
Chinese Term: 残余废污泥
Translation: 废水处理或工业过程产生的过量的、无用的半固体或沉淀物。

Code: 7159
English Term: residue analysis
Definition: Analysis of residues from agricultural chemicals used in food crops and contained in foodstuff. The analyses use gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, immunoassays, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA /  USDA)
Chinese Term: 残留物分析
Translation: 对在农作物中使用并残留在食物中的农业化学品残余物的分析。该分析使用气相色谱、液相色谱、质谱、免疫等方法。

Code: 12429
English Term: residue of grinding
Definition: Dust or other residue left after reducing a material to very small particles.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 研磨残留物
Translation: 在把物质变成很小的微粒时产生的灰尘或其它剩余物。

Code: 7160
English Term: residue recycling
Definition: Recycling of material or energy which is left over or wasted in industrial processes and other human activities. Examples include waste heat and gaseous pollutants from electricity generation, slag from metal-ore refining, and garbage. A residual becomes an output or input when a technological advance creates economic opportunities for the waste.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 残留物回收
Translation: 回收在工业过程和其它人类活动中废弃或浪费的物质或能量。例如发电产生的无用的热量和污染的气体，金属矿石提炼中产生的矿渣和垃圾。随着技术进步，废料作为输入和输出也有了经济价值。

Code: 7161
English Term: resin
Definition: Any of a class of solid or semisolid organic products of natural or synthetic origin with no definite melting point, generally of high molecular weight; most resins are polymers.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 树脂
Translation: 任何类型自然合成的固体或半固体物质，该物质没有固定的熔点，通常具有大分子；很多树脂是聚合物。

Code: 10708
English Term: resinous plant
Definition: Plants yielding or producing resin.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 树脂植物
Translation: 产生树脂的植物。

Code: 7163
English Term: resistance (biological)
Definition: 1) The ability of a plant to overcome, retard, suppress, or prevent infection or colonization by a pathogen, parasite, or adverse abiotic factor. &#10;2) The ability of insects, fungi, weeds, or other pests to survive normally lethal doses of an insecticide, fungicide, herbicide, or other pesticide.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 抵抗力（生物学的）
Translation: 1）植物具有的克服、延缓、抑制或阻止传染病或病原体、寄生虫、或不利的非生物因素影响的能力。&#10;2）昆虫、真菌、杂草或其它有害生物能在几乎是致死剂量的杀虫剂、杀菌剂、除草剂或其它农药中生存的能力。

Code: 7165
English Term: resolution (act)
Definition: A formal expression of the opinion of an official body or a public assembly, adopted by vote, as a legislative resolution.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 正式决议（法令）
Translation: 正式公布的通过投票产生的官方的或者是公众集体的意见。是一个有立法权的决议。

Code: 14899
English Term: resolution (parameter)
Definition: A remote sensing term which has three separate applications: a) spatial resolution, which refers to the ability of a sensor to distinguish between objects that are spatially close to each other. It is a measure of the smallest angular or linear separation between two objects. b) Spectral resolution which refers to the ability of a sensor to distinguish between objects which are spectrally similar. It is a measure of both the discreteness of wavebands and the sensitivity of the sensor to distinguish between electromagnetic radiation intensity levels. c) Thermal resolution which refers to the ability of a sensor to distinguish between objects with a similar temperature.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 分辨率（参数）
Translation: 远程遥感术语，它有三种不用的应用背景：a）空间分辨率，指传感器区分空间上距离很近的物体的能力。这是区分两个物体之间的最小的角度或直线距离的方法。b）光谱分辨率，指传感器区分独立的很相似的物体的能力。是确定波段的连续性和传感器对于电磁辐射的强度级别的敏感性的方法。c）热分辨率，指传感器区分热量相似的物体的能力。

Code: 7167
English Term: resorption
Definition: Absorption or, less commonly, adsorption of material by a body or system from which the material was previously released.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 再吸收
Translation: 吸收，或者不那么常用，身体或系统先产生这种物质再重新吸收该物质。

Code: 7168
English Term: resource
Definition: Any component of the environment that can be utilized by an organism.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 资源
Translation: 任何能被生物体利用的环境中的部分。

Code: 7169
English Term: resource appraisal
Definition: Assessment of the availability of resources in a given area.&#10;(Source: GILP96a)
Chinese Term: 资源评价
Translation: 评价资源在指定区域的可用性。

Code: 7170
English Term: resource conservation
Definition: Reduction of overall resource consumption and utilization of recovered resources in order to avoid waste.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 资源保护
Translation: 减少所有资源消耗和为了避免浪费而回收资源。

Code: 7172
English Term: resource exploitation
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 资源开发
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7173
English Term: resource reserve
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 资源存储
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 8879
English Term: resource utilisation
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 资源利用
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7175
English Term: resources management
Definition: A conscious process of decision-making whereby natural and cultural resources are allocated over time and space to optimize the attainment of stated objectives of a society, within the framework of its technology, political and social institutions, and legal and administrative arrangements. An important objective is the conservation of resources, implying a close and integrated relationship between the ecological basis and the socio-economic system.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 资源管理
Translation: 有意识的决策过程。通过该过程，在技术、政治和社会制度、法律和监管部门的安排框架下，自然和文化资源按照时间和空间分配以优化社会中不同状态客体获得资源的情况。重要目标是保护资源，包括维持生态基础和社会经济系统的密切关系。

Code: 7176
English Term: respiration
Definition: The process in living organisms of taking in oxygen from the surroundings and giving out carbon dioxide.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 呼吸
Translation: 生物从周围环境中吸入氧气并释放二氧化碳的过程。

Code: 7178
English Term: respiratory air
Definition: Air volumes inspired and expired through the lungs.&#10;(Source: DELFIN)
Chinese Term: 呼吸的空气
Translation: 从肺部吸入和呼出的空气。

Code: 7179
English Term: respiratory disease
Definition:
Chinese Term: 呼吸疾病
Translation:

Code: 7180
English Term: respiratory protection apparatus
Definition: Any of a group of devices that protect the respiratory system from exposure to airborne contaminants; usually a mask with a fitting to cover the nose and mouth.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Chinese Term: 呼吸保护设备
Translation: 任何保护呼吸系统以避免空气传播的污染的设备；通常是能遮住鼻子和嘴的遮罩。

Code: 7181
English Term: respiratory system
Definition: The structures and passages involved with the intake, expulsion and exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the vertebrate body.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 呼吸系统
Translation: 入气口的结构和通道，在脊椎动物体内交换氧气和二氧化碳。

Code: 7182
English Term: respiratory tract
Definition: The structures and passages involved with intake, expulsion, and exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the vertebrate body.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 呼吸道
Translation: 脊椎动物身体中的结构和通道，负责摄入、逐出、和交换氧气和二氧化碳。

Code: 7184
English Term: responsibility
Definition: The obligation to answer for an act done, and to repair or otherwise make restitution for any injury it may have caused.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term: 责任
Translation: 为做过的事情负责，修复或赔偿可能产生的伤害。

Code: 7187
English Term: resting form
Definition: Resistant structure that allows the organism to survive adverse environmental conditions.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Chinese Term: 休眠型
Translation: 使生物体能在不利的条件中生存的抵抗性结构。

Code: 7188
English Term: restoration
Definition: The process of renewing or returning something to its original, normal or unimpaired condition, particularly works of art, cultural artifacts, furniture or buildings.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 恢复
Translation: 恢复到物体原始的、平常的或未受伤的状态的过程。特别是针对艺术、文物、家具或建筑物的修复工作。

Code: 7189
English Term: restoration measure
Definition: Procedure or course of action taken to reestablish or bring back to state of environmental or ecological health.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 恢复方法
Translation: 重建或恢复环境或生态健康的活动的过程。

Code: 14962
English Term: restoration of water
Definition: Any treatment process in which contaminated water is cleansed or corrected, particularly by use of a pump-and-treat approach.&#10;(Source: OSW / GHT)
Chinese Term: 水的恢复
Translation: 被污染的水重新变干净的过程，特别是通过抽水处理的方法。

Code: 7191
English Term: restriction of production
Definition: Any decision, action or policy which limits or constrains the making of valued goods or services.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 产品限制
Translation: 任何限制有价值商品的制造的决策、行动或政策。

Code: 13263
English Term: restriction on competition
Definition: Article 85(1) of the EEC Treaty prohibits all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between member states and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market. All such arrangements are automatically null and void under Article 85(2), unless exempted by the Commission pursuant to Article 85(3). The text of Article 85 is as follows: "1. The following shall be prohibited as incompatible with the common market: all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between member states and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market, and in particular those which: (a) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices or any other trading conditions; (b) limit or control production, markets, technical development, or investment; (c) share markets or sources of supply; (d) apply dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive disadvantage; (e) make the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts.&#10;(Source: CLAORG)
Chinese Term: 竞争限制
Translation: EEC条约的85（1）篇禁止承包方和决策方之间的所有以下协议，这些协议可能影响成员国的交易并且结果是阻止、限制或扭曲了一般市场的竞争。在85（2）篇规定所有这样的协议自动无效，除非由委员会按照85（3）中的规定赦免。85篇的内容是：“1. 以下一些不适合一般市场的情况应当被禁止：承包方和决策方的所有协议，这些协议可能影响成员国的交易并且结果是阻止、限制或扭曲了一般市场的竞争。特别是：（a）直接或间接的固定购买超过卖出的价格或有任何交易条件；（b）限制或控制生产、市场、技术发展或投资；（c）共享供给的市场或资源；（d）和其他贸易方进行同等的交易时使用了不同的条件，因此给他们带来了竞争劣势；（e）和有附带责任的其它方确定合同，按照他们的本性或商业使用来说，和这个合同的主体没有关系。”。

Code: 7192
English Term: restriction on use
Definition: A limitation on the utilization of land or some other property, often inscribed in a deed or lease document.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 使用限制
Translation: 对使用土地或其他财富的限制，通常写在租赁文件或契约中。

Code: 13278
English Term: restrictive trade practice
Definition: Business operation or action that confines or limits the free exchange of goods and services within a country or between countries, which may include discrimination, exclusive dealings, collusion agreements or price fixing.&#10;(Source: RHW / ODE)
Chinese Term: 限制竞争行为
Translation: 在一个国家内部或国家之间限制自由商品和服务交换的业务操作或活动，这种限制包括歧视、独家交易、协议或串通定价。

Code: 7193
English Term: retail trade
Definition: The sale of goods to ultimate consumers, usually in small quantities.
Chinese Term: 零售贸易
Translation: 向最终用户销售商品，通常是小数量的。

Code: 12210
English Term: retaining reservoir
Definition: Basin used to hold water in storage.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 蓄水库
Translation: 存储水的水池。

Code: 7194
English Term: retarding basin
Definition: A basin designed and operated to provide temporary storage and thus reduce the peak flood flows of a stream.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 减速池
Translation: 为了减少流域中高峰水流而设计和使用的临时性储水的水池。

Code: 7195
English Term: retrofitting
Definition: 1) Addition of a pollution control device on an existing facility without making major changes to the generating plant.&#10; 2) Providing a jet, an automobile, a computer, or a factory, for example, with parts, devices or equipment not in existence or available at the time of original manufacture.&#10;(Source: TOE /  AMHER)
Chinese Term: 改装
Translation: 1）在现存设施上增加了污染控制设备而没有对生产设备做大的改变。2）为飞机、汽车、计算机、或工厂提供在开始生产时不存在或不能得到的东西，例如某部分、设备或装置。

Code: 7058
English Term: retrofitting of old plants
Definition: Making changes to old industrial plants installing new equipment's and facilities for the disposal of gas emissions in the atmosphere, of waste water and waste material in soil and water.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 改装旧工厂
Translation: 对旧工厂的改造，安装新的废气处理、污水处理和对流入土壤和水中的废料进行处理的设施或设备。

Code: 7197
English Term: return to nature
Definition:
Chinese Term: 回归自然
Translation:

Code: 14236
English Term: returnable container
Definition: Container whose return from the consumer or final user is assured by specific means (separate collection, deposits, etc.), independently on its final destination, in order to be reused, recovered or subjected to specific waste management operations.&#10;(Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 多次使用容器
Translation: 能通过特定方法（分类收集、定金等）保证不管容器最终在哪里，都可以从使用者或最终用户处回收，这是为了在废品管理中重用、恢复或使用相应的容器。

Code: 7198
English Term: reusable container
Definition: Any container which has been conceived and designed to accomplish within its life cycle a minimum number of trips or rotations in order to be refilled or reused for the same purpose for which it was conceived.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Chinese Term: 可重用的容器
Translation: 任何容器，在它设计时就要在它的生命周期中使运输和倒转的次数最小，这样在以后有相同的要求时能重用这个容器。

Code: 7201
English Term: reuse of materials
Definition: Any re-utilization of products or components, in original form, such as when used glass bottles are sterilized and refilled for resale.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 重用材料
Translation: 任何能在原始状态下重用的产品或部分，例如用过的玻璃瓶在消毒和重装后被重新卖出。

Code: 7202
English Term: revegetation
Definition: Planting of new trees and, particularly, of native plants in disturbed sites where the vegetation cover has been destroyed, to stabilize the land surface from wind and water erosion and to reclame the land for other uses. Revegetation practices are employed in mined lands, roadsides, parks, wetlands, utility corridors, riparian areas, etc.&#10;(Source: REVEGa /  CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 再种植
Translation: 种植新的树，特别是在植被被破坏的地区种植原来的植物。目的是稳定地表以免被风或水腐蚀并为其它用途保持土地。再种植一般在雷区土地、路旁、公园、湿地、公用走廊和沿岸地区等地区进行。

Code: 7204
English Term: reverse osmosis
Definition: A method of obtaining pure water from water containing a salt, as in desalination. Pure water and the salt water are separated by a semipermeable membrane and the pressure of the salt water is raised above the osmotic pressure, causing water from the brine to pass through the membrane into the pure water. This process requires a pressure of some 25 atmospheres, which makes it difficult to apply on a large scale.&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 反渗透
Translation: 从含盐的水中获得纯水的方法，即脱盐。纯水和盐水用半渗透性的薄膜分开并且盐水的压强高于渗透压强，这使盐水中的水通过薄膜进入纯水。这个过程需要25个气压的压强，这使得这个方法很难大规模应用。

Code: 7214
English Term: rice
Definition: An erect grass, Oryza sativa, that grows in East Asia on wet ground and has drooping flower spikes and yellow oblong edible grains that become white when polished.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 稻
Translation: 一种直立的草，水稻，长与东亚湿土地中。它有下垂的穗和黄色可食用的种子，在研磨后变成白色。

Code: 11527
English Term: right of access
Definition:
Chinese Term: 访问的权利
Translation:

Code: 7218
English Term: right of property
Definition: The legal guarantee or just claim inhering in a citizen's relation to some physical thing, but especially a plot of land, including the right to possess, use and dispose of it.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 财产权
Translation: 合法的保证书或声明继承某人的物品，但通常是土地，包括所有权、使用权和处分权。

Code: 7221
English Term: right to compensation
Definition: A legally enforceable claim for payment or reimbursement to pay for damages, loss or injury, or for remuneration to pay for services rendered, whether in fees, commissions or salary.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 补偿权
Translation: 合法申请对损失、损伤进行补偿的权利，或对使用某项服务所付的费用。

Code: 7222
English Term: right to information
Definition: The individual's right to know in general about the existence of data banks, the right to be informed on request and the general right to a print-out of the information registered and to know the actual use made of the information.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Chinese Term: 信息权
Translation: 个人了解数据银行的权利，包括按需接受通知、注册信息的打印和实际使用信息的权利。

Code: 13147
English Term: rights
Definition: 1) Title to or an interest in any property.&#10; 2) Any interest or privilege recognized and protected by law.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Chinese Term: 权利
Translation: 1）对财产的所有或占有一定的股份。2）受到法律保护的任何利益或特权

Code: 11478
English Term: rights of future generations
Definition: The moral, legal or ethical claims of posterity on present people, based on the recognition that the young and unborn are vulnerable to contemporary decision-making, especially decisions having long-term effect on the societies and environment they inherit.&#10;(Source: FUT)
Chinese Term: 后代的权利
Translation: 在道德、法律或伦理上的后代所拥有的权利。该权利要基于未成年人或尚未出生的人不能很好地做出决定这一前提，特别是对社会和环境有重大影响的决定。

Code: 5508
English Term: rights of nature
Definition: A rule or body of rules that derives from nature and is believed to be binding upon human society, as opposed to human-made laws such as legislative acts and judicial decisions.&#10;(Source: WOR / INP)
Chinese Term: 自然权利
Translation: 对人类社会有影响的自然规律，与人为规定的法律（如法案、判决）不同。

Code: 13329
English Term: rights of the individual
Definition: Just claims, legal guarantees or moral principles accorded to each and every member of a group or state, including the freedom to do certain things and the freedom from certain intrusions imposed by the collective body.&#10;(Source: APS / RHW)
Chinese Term: 个人权利
Translation: 正当的要求，与一个国家或集团的每个人相关的法律保障或道德原则，包括做某件事的自由和避免被集团强行干扰的自由。

Code: 7223
English Term: ringing (wildlife)
Definition: To attach a numbered ring to the leg of a bird so that its movements can be recorded. Ringing is a very common method of tracing bird movement and providing information about bird's ages. It can also cause stress to the birds.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 上环（野生动物）
Translation: 给鸟的腿上带上编号的环来记录鸟的移动。上环是一种非常普遍的用来跟踪鸟行踪的方法，并能提供鸟的年龄信息。但它也会给鸟带来压力。

Code: 7227
English Term: rinsing
Definition: The removal of thin layers of surface material more or less evenly from an extensive area of gently sloping land, by broad continuous sheets of running water rather than by streams flowing in well-defined channels; e.g. erosion that occurs when rain washes away a thin layer of topsoil.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 冲洗
Translation: 例如，当雨水冲走表层土的一薄层所产生的侵蚀现象。

Code: 7230
English Term: riparian zone
Definition: 1) Terrestrial areas where the vegetation complex and microclimate are products of the combined pressure and influence of perennial and/or intermittent water... and soils that exhibit some wetness characteristics.&#10; 2) Zone situated on the bank of a water course such as a river or stream.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE /  GILP96)
Chinese Term: 河滨地带
Translation: 1）在多种自然力、连续或间接的水域影响下，形成的植被状态，具有复杂和微气候特点的陆地区域，该区域往往具有土壤湿润的特点。2）水域（如河流、小溪）旁的区域。

Code: 7231
English Term: rising (geological)
Definition: The slow vertical instability of the earth crust involving up-and-down movements as in the volcanic district west of Naples, Italy.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 上升（地理）
Translation: 地壳的垂直不稳定性，包括它的上下移动（如意大利的那不勒斯西部的火山地带）

Code: 7232
English Term: rising sea level
Definition: Sea level rises are a possible consequence of global warming. As the amount of free water in the ocean increases, and as the water becomes warmer, global warming will increase. In addition, according to theory, the heating at the poles may reduce the amount of water trapped in glaciers and ice caps. By the year 3000, the seas could rise between one and two metres. Such an event would clearly threaten low-lying areas, particularly in Asia, where million of people live and farm on river deltas and flood plains.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 海平面上升
Translation: 全球变暖导致海平面上升。随着海洋中的水量的增加、水温的升高，全球变暖将进一步加剧。此外，理论研究表明，两极地区的升温会减少冰川和冰盖的数量。到3000年，海平面将上升1到2米。这将会影响低洼地区，特别是亚洲，那里有数百万居民在河口的三角洲地带和冲击平原上生活和耕作。

Code: 7233
English Term: risk
Definition: The expected number of lives lost, persons injured, damage to property and disruption of economic activity due to a particular natural phenomenon, and consequently the product of the probability of occurrence and the expected magnitude of damage.&#10;(Source: GUNN /  RRDA)
Chinese Term: 风险
Translation: 由于特定的自然现象导致的一定数量的人员死亡、受伤、财产损失和对经济活动的影响，以及随之而来的事件所导致的后果和造成的损失。

Code: 7235
English Term: risk analysis
Definition: Technique used to determine the likelihood or chance of hazardous events occurring (such as release of a certain quantity of a toxic gas) and the likely consequences. Originally developed for use in nuclear and chemical industry where certain possible events, of low probability, could have extremely serious results. Attempts are being made to use concepts from probabilistic risk analysis to characterise environmental impacts, whose occurrence and nature are not easy to predict with any degree of accuracy.&#10;(Source: ERIN)
Chinese Term: 风险分析
Translation: 用于确定灾难间相似程度和灾难发生可能性的技术（如有毒气体泄露的量）。原先在核领域和化学领域发生的小概率事件可能会引起极其严重的后果。由于这些自然事件的发生不具有确定性，所以已经尝试使用风险概率分析方法去刻画其对环境的影响。

Code: 7236
English Term: risk assessment
Definition: The qualitative and quantitative evaluation performed in an effort to define the risk posed to human health and/or the environment by an action or by the presence or use of a specific substance or pollutant.&#10;(Source: LEEa)
Chinese Term: 风险评估
Translation: 针对对人类的健康和/或环境造成风险的行为或使用特殊物质或污染物的定性和定量的评估。

Code: 7238
English Term: risk communication
Definition: The exchange of information about health or environmental risks among risk assessors and managers, the general public, news media, interest groups, etc.&#10;(Source: OPPTIN)
Chinese Term: 风险交流
Translation: 在风险评估者、管理者、公众、新闻媒体、以及对此感兴趣的组织之间交换关于健康和环境风险的信息。

Code: 12778
English Term: risk exposure
Definition: The situation or set of circumstances where the probability of harm to an area or its population increases beyond a normal level.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  HMD)
Chinese Term: 风险发生
Translation: 对某一地区或该地区的人造成危害的可能性超过正常水平的情形。

Code: 12872
English Term: risk exposure plan
Definition: A scheme or method of acting that takes effect if the probability of harm to an area or its population increases beyond a normal level.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  HMD)
Chinese Term: 风险发生应对计划
Translation: 当某一地区和该地区的人受到风险的威胁超过正常水平时，制定的对应计划或采用的对应措施。

Code: 10053
English Term: risk management
Definition: The process of evaluating and selecting alternative regulatory and non-regulatory responses to prepare for the probability of an accidental occurrence and its expected magnitude of damage, including the consideration of legal, economic and behavioral factors.&#10;(Source: HMD / TOE)
Chinese Term: 风险管理
Translation: 对风险的评估，选择有法律规定的或未规定的方式，对某种可能发生的事故做准备，以及对破坏的程度的预测。往往包括法律、经济和行为等多方因素。

Code: 7240
English Term: risk perception
Definition: A subjective appreciation by individuals which will more often than not bear little relation to the statistical probability of damage or injury.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Chinese Term: 风险感知
Translation: 个人对风险的主观感觉，这个与静态的损伤概率无太大关系。

Code: 7241
English Term: risk reduction
Definition: Any act, instance or process lowering the probability that harm will come to an area or its population as the result of some hazard.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  TOE)
Chinese Term: 降低风险
Translation: 任何降低某地区或该地区居民所受危险的行动、事例或过程。

Code: 7237
English Term: risk-benefit analysis
Definition: A systematic process of evaluating and assessing the hazards of loss versus the possibility of financial gain or profit.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 风险-收益分析
Translation: 系统地评估和评价可能失败的危险和可能获得的财产和利益的过程。

Code: 7244
English Term: river
Definition: A stream of water which flows in a channel from high ground to low ground and ultimately to a lake or the sea, except in a desert area where it may dwindle away to nothing. A river and all its tributaries within a single basin is termed a drainage system.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 河
Translation: 一股水流，在河道里从高处流向低处的河或海，但在沙漠中会逐渐减少到没有。河和它在一个盆地里的所有支流一起称作一个排水系统。

Code: 7251
English Term: river basin development
Definition: Any growth, maturation or change in an area of land drained by a river and its tributaries.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 流域发展
Translation: 由河流或它的支流冲击产生的任何土地面积的增长、成熟或变化。

Code: 10161
English Term: river bed
Definition: The channel containing or formerly containing the water of a river.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 河床
Translation: 包含或原来包含河水的河道。

Code: 7257
English Term: river channelling
Definition: The alteration of a natural stream by excavation, realignment, lining or other means to accelerate the flow of water.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 河流运河
Translation: 天然河的代替品，通过挖掘、重组、拉直或其它手段，以加快水的流动。

Code: 11648
English Term: river disposal
Definition: Discharge of solid, liquid or gaseous waste into a river.
Chinese Term: 河流处理
Translation: 排除河里的固体、液体和气体废物。

Code: 12189
English Term: river management
Definition: The administration or handling of a waterway or a stream of flowing water.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 河流管理
Translation: 管理或处理水道或流水的河。

Code: 7266
English Term: river pollution
Definition: The direct or indirect human alteration of the biological, physical, chemical or radiological integrity of river water, or a river ecosystem.&#10;(Source: Landy)
Chinese Term: 河流污染
Translation: 人们直接或间接的改变河水或者河的生态系统的生物、物理、化学或放射性的完整性。

Code: 3341
English Term: river transport
Definition: Transportation of goods or persons by means of ships travelling on rivers.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 河流运输
Translation: 通过河里的船只来运输物品或人。

Code: 7269
English Term: river water
Definition: Water which flows in a channel from high ground to low ground and ultimately to a lake or the sea, except in a desert area where it may dwindle away to nothing.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 河水
Translation: 水流，在河道里从高处流向低处的河或海，但在沙漠中会逐渐减少到没有。

Code: 10593
English Term: riverside vegetation
Definition: Plants growing in areas adjacent to rivers and streams.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 河边植物
Translation: 在河边和溪边生长的植物。

Code: 7272
English Term: road
Definition: A long piece of hard ground that people can drive along from one place to another.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 路
Translation: 长的、硬的地面，人们可以在上面开车，从一个地方到另一个地方。

Code: 7276
English Term: road construction
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 修路
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 11271
English Term: road construction material
Definition: The aggregation of components used for building streets, highways and other routes, such as asphalt, concrete, brick, sand and gravel.&#10;(Source: ROA)
Chinese Term: 修路材料
Translation: 用于建造马路、高速路和其它路的所有原料，例如沥青、混凝土、砖、砂、砾石。

Code: 7279
English Term: road maintenance
Definition: The care or upkeep of streets, highways and other routes, including improvements in alignment, widening and markings, and work involving buried cables, water mains or gas mains.&#10;(Source: CSD)
Chinese Term: 道路维护
Translation: 马路、高速路和其它路的保养，包括在路线的改进、扩建和标记，并且工作涉及埋电缆、水管或气管。

Code: 11277
English Term: road network
Definition: The system of roads through a country.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 道路网络
Translation: 一个国家的道路系统。

Code: 7282
English Term: road safety
Definition: Any measure, technique or design intended to reduce the risk of harm posed by moving vehicles along a constructed land route.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 道路安全
Translation: 任何致力于降低在修建的道路上行驶的交通工具所产生的危害和风险的方法、技术和设计。

Code: 7283
English Term: road salt
Definition: Salt used against the formation of ice on roads; when excess salt washes off the roads, it can poison roadside vegetation or raise salt concentrations in streams and reserves of underground water. It also accelerates the deterioration of concrete and metal.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Chinese Term: 铺路盐
Translation: 为了避免道路上结冰使用的盐；当道路上冲下来过多的盐，会毒害路边的植物或增加溪流和地下水的盐的浓度。它也加速了混凝土和金属的老化。

Code: 14972
English Term: road setting
Definition: The establishing of boulevards, turnpikes, highways and other routes on land.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 道路设置
Translation: 在路面上建立林荫大道、收费公路、高速路及其它道路。

Code: 7293
English Term: road traffic
Definition: Circulation of motor vehicles and people on the road network.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 道路交通
Translation: 在道路网络中循环的机动车和人。

Code: 7295
English Term: road traffic engineering
Definition: Discipline which includes the design of highways and pedestrian ways, the study and application of traffic statistics, and the environmental aspects of the transportation of goods and people.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 道路交通工程
Translation: 一门学科，包括设计高速公路和人行道，交通统计的研究和应用，以及运输物品和人的环境状况。

Code: 7296
English Term: road transport
Definition: Transportation of goods and persons by vehicles travelling on a road network.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 道路运输
Translation: 在道路网络中通过车辆运输物品和人。

Code: 7298
English Term: rock
Definition: Any aggregate of minerals that makes up part of the earth's crust. It may be unconsolidated, such as sand, clay, or mud, or consolidated, such as granite, limestone, or coal.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 岩石
Translation: 组成地壳的矿石的集合。它可能是松散的，例如沙子、沾土和泥土，或者是坚固的，例如花岗岩、石灰石、或煤。

Code: 12666
English Term: rock mechanics
Definition: The theoretical and applied science of the physical behavior of rocks, representing a "branch of mechanics concerned with the response of rock to the force fields of its physical environment".&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 岩石机制
Translation: 研究岩石的物理行为的理论和应用的科学，说明“岩石对它的物理环境中的外力的反应的各种机制”。

Code: 6541
English Term: rock salt mining
Definition: Rock salt mining is an underground mining process in which the salt is physically dug out of the ground in an operation involving drilling, blasting and crushing the rock. The major percentage of this output is used for winter road maintenance.&#10;(Source: SALINF)
Chinese Term: 石头盐矿开采
Translation: 石头盐矿开采是地下采矿过程。在这个过程中通过钻孔、爆破和破碎的岩石把盐挖出地面。出产的主要部分用作冬天的路面维护。

Code: 7302
English Term: rock wool
Definition: A generic term for felted or matted fibers manufactured by blowing or spinning threads of molten rock, slag, or glass. The material is used for thermal insulation.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 矿棉
Translation: 通常的术语，用来描述通过吹或细化熔化的岩石、矿渣或玻璃制成的线制造的粘连的或缠结的纤维。这种物质常用在绝热材料中。

Code: 7306
English Term: rodent
Definition: Any of the relatively small placental mammals that constitute the order Rodentia, having constantly growing incisor teeth specialized for gnawing.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 啮齿类动物
Translation: 构成重齿目的任何相对小的哺乳动物，有不断生长的用于咬的特殊门牙。

Code: 11922
English Term: rolling noise
Definition: Deeply resounding, reverberating noise caused by the friction between car tyres and road surfaces.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 滚动声
Translation: 由汽车和路面摩擦产生的很强的回声、轰轰的噪音。

Code: 7312
English Term: root
Definition: The absorbing and anchoring organ of a vascular plant; it bears neither leaves nor flowers and is usually subterranean.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 根
Translation: 导管植物吸收营养和固定的器官；它既没有叶子也没有花并且通常在地下。

Code: 13205
English Term: root crop
Definition: Plants which store edible material in a root, corm or tuber; root crops used as food vegetables or fodder include carrots, parsnips, swedes and turnips; starchy root crops include potatoes, cassavas and yams.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 块根农作物
Translation: 根、球茎或块茎且能食用的植物；块根农作物作为食物、蔬菜或草料包括胡萝卜、欧洲防风草、甘蓝和萝卜；淀粉块根作物包括马铃薯、木薯和红薯。

Code: 7314
English Term: rotary furnace
Definition: A heat-treating furnace of circular construction which rotates the workpiece around the axis of the furnace during heat treatment; workpieces are transported through the furnace along a circular path.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 回转炉
Translation: 有循环结构的热处理炉，在热处理的过程中工件会围着炉子的轴旋转；工件通过炉子沿着循环的路径运输。

Code: 7319
English Term: route
Definition: Any established or selected course for passage or travel.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 路线
Translation: 任何为旅客或旅行建立或选择的路线。

Code: 7320
English Term: route planning
Definition: The activity of designing, organizing or preparing for the construction of boulevards, turnpikes, highways and other roads.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 路线规划
Translation: 设计、组织或修复林荫大道、收费公路、公路和其它道路的活动。

Code: 13555
English Term: royalty
Definition: Compensation for the use of a person's property, based on an agreed percentage of the income arising from its use.
Chinese Term: 版税
Translation: 对使用个人财产的补偿，补偿基于对使用它所获得的收益的比例来协定。

Code: 7324
English Term: rubber
Definition: A cream to dark brown elastic material obtained by coagulating and drying the latex from certain plants, especially the rubber tree.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 橡胶
Translation: 通过凝固或干燥某种植物（特别是橡胶树）的乳液获得的奶油色到深棕色有弹性的物质。

Code: 7326
English Term: rubber processing
Definition: The systematic series of actions in which a solid substance deriving from rubber trees and plants is toughened and treated chemically to give it the strength, elasticity, resistance and other qualities needed for the manufacture of products such as erasers, elastic bands, water hoses, electrical insulation and tires.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 橡胶处理
Translation: 一系列系统的活动，在活动中从橡胶树和植物中得到的固体物质被硬化并且被化学处理使其达到制作产品的要求，例如松紧带、橡皮、水管、电绝缘和轮胎，要求包括强度、弹性、阻力和其它特性。

Code: 7327
English Term: rubber processing industry
Definition: A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the manufacture and marketing of natural or synthetic rubber products.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 橡胶处理工业
Translation: 一个经济部门，商业企业生产和销售天然或人造橡胶产品。

Code: 7328
English Term: rubber waste
Definition: Any refuse or unwanted material made of synthetic or natural rubber, often the byproduct of rubber processing.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 橡胶废料
Translation: 任何制造天然或人造橡胶所产生的不用的材料，通常是橡胶处理的副产品。

Code: 13283
English Term: ruling
Definition: A judicial or administrative interpretation of a provision of a statute, order, regulation, or ordinance. May also refer to judicial determination of admissibility of evidence, allowance of motion, etc.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Chinese Term:
Translation: 对一项法规、法令、规章或条例的司法或权威的解释。可能也会参考对证据的可用性、动机的可宽恕性等的司法决议。

Code: 9322
English Term: running wild
Definition: A state of nature or a quality or state of being undomesticated, untamed or uncultivated.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 野化
Translation: 自然的状态或未驯服的、未控制或没有文化的状态。

Code: 7340
English Term: runoff
Definition: Rate at which water is removed by flowing over the soil surface. This rate is determined by the texture of the soil, slope, climate, and land use cover (e.g. paved surface, grass, forest, bare soil).&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 流量
Translation: 水在地表流动的速度。这个速度决定于土地的结构、坡度、气候和土地的覆盖物（例如铺设面、草、森林、裸土）。

Code: 11344
English Term: rural architecture
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 农村结构
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7345
English Term: rural area
Definition: Area outside the limits of any incorporated or unincorporated city, town, village, or any other designated residential or commercial area such as a subdivision, a business or shopping center, or community development.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 农村面积
Translation: 不属于任何城市，小镇、村庄、或任何其它指定的居民区或商业区，如行政区、商业或购物中心、或社区发展限制之内的区域。

Code: 11159
English Term: rural development
Definition: Any course destined to promote economic growth, modernization, increase in agricultural production and the creation of a framework in which to fulfill primary needs, such as education, health and supply of water in the rural areas. The attainment of such objectives depends in general on the type of administrative systems proposed for the various programmes and on the national political situation as regards, for instance land tenure, agrarian reform, the disbursement of assistance and food policy.&#10;(Source: GREMES)
Chinese Term: 农村发展
Translation: 任何致力于发展经济、现代化、增加农业产量和建立满足个人需求（例如在农村教育、健康和水的供给）的框架的工作。实现这些目标通常依赖于众多纲领提出的监管系统和国家的政治状况，例如要考虑土地使用权、农业改革、援助和粮食政策。

Code: 7348
English Term: rural environment
Definition: Environment pertaining to the countryside.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Chinese Term: 农村环境
Translation: 农村的环境。

Code: 13104
English Term: rural habitat
Definition: The biotopes located in areas where agriculture is practiced.&#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Chinese Term: 农村居驻地
Translation: 在生产农作物的地方建立的小区。

Code: 11476
English Term: rural law
Definition: A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government pertaining to matters of importance to residents of sparsely populated regions, especially agricultural and other economic issues.&#10;(Source: RUR)
Chinese Term: 农村法
Translation: 由政府制定的联编或主体的规则，和人口稀少地区的重要事务相关，特别是农业和其它经济问题。

Code: 11243
English Term: rural management and planning
Definition: The activity or process of overseeing and preparing for the future physical arrangement and condition of any agricultural or pastoral area, which may involve protecting and developing natural and human resources that affect an area's economic vitality.&#10;(Source: RHW / NPH)
Chinese Term: 农村管理和计划
Translation: 为农业或牧业地区未来的生产生活条件做规划和准备的活动或过程。这个过程可能包括保护和发展某地区经济的自然资源和人力资源。

Code: 7352
English Term: rural population
Definition: The total number of persons inhabiting an agricultural or pastoral region.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 农村人口
Translation: 在农业或牧业地区居住的人口总数。

Code: 7353
English Term: rural settlement
Definition: A collection of dwellings located in a rural area.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 农村居住
Translation: 农村地区的住宅的集合。

Code: 7355
English Term: rural water supply
Definition:
Chinese Term: 农村水供给
Translation:

Code: 7362
English Term: safety
Definition: The state of being secure from harm, injury, danger or risk, often as a result of planned measures or preparations.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全
Translation: 不会受到伤害、损伤或危险的状态，通常是计划或准备的结果。

Code: 7363
English Term: safety analysis
Definition: The process of studying the need for or efficacy of actions, procedures or devices intended to lower the occurrence or risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全分析
Translation: 为了降低伤害对人、财产或环境的损失和危险的发生率或风险，而研究相关活动、过程或设备的效果或必要性。

Code: 7364
English Term: safety measure
Definition: An action, procedure or contrivance designed to lower the occurrence or risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全措施
Translation: 为了降低伤害对人、财产或环境的损失和危险的发生率或风险，而设计相关活动、过程或设备。

Code: 7366
English Term: safety rule
Definition: A principle or regulation governing actions, procedures or devices intended to lower the occurrence or risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全规则
Translation: 为了降低伤害对人、财产或环境的损失和危险的发生率或风险，而用原则或规定规范一些相关活动、过程或设备。

Code: 7367
English Term: safety standard
Definition: A norm or measure applicable in legal cases for any action, procedure or contrivance designed to lower the occurrence or risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全标准
Translation: 为了降低伤害对人、财产或环境的损失和危险的发生率或风险，而设计的在法律上可应用于任何相关活动、过程或设备中的方法。

Code: 7369
English Term: safety standard for building
Definition: A collection of rules and regulations adopted by authorities concerning structural and mechanical standards for safety.&#10;(Source: HARRISa)
Chinese Term: 建筑安全标准
Translation: 权威部门采用的关于安全的结构和机制标准的规则的集合。

Code: 7370
English Term: safety study
Definition: Research, detailed examination and usually a written report on the need for or efficacy of actions, procedures or devices intended to lower the occurrence or risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全研究
Translation:  为了降低伤害对人、财产或环境的损失和危险的发生率或风险而使用的一些相关活动、过程或设备，对这些活动、过程或设备的必要性或效果的研究，详细考察并通常给出书面报告。

Code: 10054
English Term: safety system
Definition: A unified, coordinated assemblage or plan of procedures and devices intended to lower the occurrence or risk of injury, loss and danger to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Chinese Term: 安全系统
Translation: 统一、协作的集合或过程计划和设备，目的是降低伤害对人、财产或环境的损失和危险的发生率或风险。

Code: 7373
English Term: salamander
Definition: Any of various urodele amphibians, such as Salamandra salamandra of central and S Europe. They are typically terrestrial, have an elongated body, and only return to water to breed.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 蝾螈
Translation: 任何有尾目的两栖类，例如蝾螈、蝾螈中心和欧洲蝾螈。它们通常是陆地动物，有细长的身体并只在生育时返回水中。

Code: 13567
English Term: salina
Definition: A place where crystalline salt deposits are formed or found, such as a salt flat or pan, a salada, or a salt lick.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 盐水湖
Translation: 形成和发现盐沉积晶体的地方，例如盐平地或凹地、沙滩或盐碱地。

Code: 7376
English Term: salination
Definition: The accumulation of soluble salts by evaporation of the waters that bore them to the soil zone, in a soil of an arid, poorly drained region.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 盐渍化
Translation: 随着水分蒸发，溶解在水中的盐凝固，留在土地里，多出现在干旱的土壤或排水不良的地区。

Code: 7384
English Term: salmonella
Definition: General name for a family of microorganisms, one of the largest groups of bacteria, that includes those most frequently implicated in food poisoning and gastroenteritis. Unhygienic handling and inadequate cooking of poultry and meat, improper storage of cold meats and, more recently, contamination of battery-reared hen eggs, are the most common sources of salmonella infections.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 沙门氏菌
Translation: 微生物家族中常出现的名字，是最大的细菌种群之一，它们包括导致食物中毒和肠胃炎的细菌。最普遍的沙门氏菌的传染源是不清洁的手和对家禽和肉的不合适的烹调方法、对冷的肉的不合适的存储，并且更常见的是电池孵化的鸡蛋的污染。

Code: 7401
English Term: salt
Definition: The reaction product when a metal displaces the hydrogen of an acid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 盐
Translation: 当金属代替了酸中的氢元素而产生的反应产品。

Code: 7390
English Term: salt content
Definition: Amount of salt contained in a solution.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 盐含量
Translation: 在溶液中盐的数量。

Code: 7395
English Term: salt load
Definition:
Chinese Term: 盐负荷
Translation:

Code: 7396
English Term: salt marsh
Definition: Areas of brackish, shallow water usually found in coastal areas and in deltas. There are also inland marshes in arid areas where the water has a high salt level because of evaporation. They are environmentally delicate areas, extremely vulnerable to pollution by industrial or agricultural chemicals, or to thermal pollution, which often results when river water has been used as the coolant in power stations and industrial plants.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 盐沼
Translation: 微咸水、浅水区通常位于沿海地区和三角洲。在干旱地区也有内陆沼泽，那里因为蒸发使水具有很高的含盐度。它们是环境敏感地区，极易受到工业或农业化学品或热污染的影响，这些影响常常是由于河水用作电站和工厂的冷冻剂产生的。

Code: 7397
English Term: salt meadow
Definition: A meadow subject to overflow by salt water.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 盐草地
Translation: 被盐水冲洗的草地。

Code: 7400
English Term: salt plug
Definition: A mass of salt which is injected as a diapir (a dome in which the overlying rocks have been ruptured by the squeezing-out of plastic core material) into overlying sedimentary rocks, thereby piercing and deforming them. The mechanism is similar to that of an intrusive magma, with the salt deforming and behaving plastically under pressure. It is of great economic importance because it assists in the formation of a "trap" structure for oil accumulation, in addition to its associated deposits of anhydrite, gypsum and sulphur.&#10;(Source: BJGEO /  WHIT)
Chinese Term: 盐栓
Translation: 作为底辟（一个凸圆，在里面层叠的岩石被塑料芯的物质压榨）注入叠加在一起的层级岩中的大量的盐，这样可以刺穿和重塑它们。这个作用和岩浆的侵入相似，因为盐在压力下被重塑并变得具有可塑性。这个过程在经济上很重要，因为它有助于产生可用于石油的积累的“陷阱”结构，还可以积累硬石膏、石膏和硫。

Code: 7402
English Term: salt water
Definition: Water of the seas, distinguished by high salinity.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 盐水
Translation: 海里的水，有盐度高低的区别。

Code: 7404
English Term: salvage
Definition: The act, process, or business of rescuing vessels or their cargoes from loss at sea.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 抢救
Translation: 在海里抢救船只或它们的货物以避免损失的活动、过程或业务。

Code: 7407
English Term: sampling
Definition: The obtaining of small representative quantities of material for the purpose of analysis.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 采样
Translation: 为了分析获得少量材料的代表。

Code: 7410
English Term: sampling technique
Definition: Method of selecting items at random from a set in such a manner that the sample will be representative of the whole.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Chinese Term: 取样技术
Translation: 从一个集合中随机选取某些项的方法，认为样本会代表整体。

Code: 7411
English Term: sanction
Definition:
Chinese Term: 批准
Translation:

Code: 7413
English Term: sand
Definition: A loose material consisting of small mineral particles, or rock and mineral particles, distinguishable by the naked eye; grains vary from almost spherical to angular, with a diameter range from 1/16 to 2 millimeters.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 沙
Translation: 松散的由小的矿物微粒或石头和矿物微粒组成的物质，能用肉眼区分；形状从近球形到有角等形状，直径在1/16到2毫米之间。

Code: 7420
English Term: sand dune
Definition: An accumulation of loose sand heaped up by the wind, commonly found along low-lying seashores above high-tide level, more rarely on the border of large lakes or river valleys, as well as in various desert regions, where there is abundant dry surface sand during some part of the year.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沙丘
Translation: 被风堆积的松散的沙的沉积，常在有很高的潮水和地势低洼的海边，很少在大湖边或河流边。同样也在很多沙漠地区，那里有很多多年积累在地表的沙。

Code: 7419
English Term: sand dune fixation
Definition: Stabilization of dunes effected by the planting of marram grass (Ammophila arenaria), or rice grass, whose long roots bind the surface layers of sand and so hinder its removal by wind. A larger scale method of dealing with the same problem is by afforestation.&#10;(Source: BLYFRE)
Chinese Term: 沙丘固定
Translation: 通过种植滨草（砂滨草蚤缀属）或稻草稳定沙丘，这些草长长的根可以绑住沙的表面因此可以阻止沙被风吹动。更大规模的处理同样问题的方法是造林。

Code: 7423
English Term: sand extraction
Definition: The extraction of sand by mining for building purposes and for the extraction of heavy minerals such as rutile and zircon.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 沙石开采
Translation: 为了建筑使用的矿物和获得重金属例如金红石和锆石而开采沙子。

Code: 10071
English Term: sand flat
Definition: A sandy tidal flat barren of vegetation. A tidal flat is an extensive, nearly horizontal, marshy or barren tract of land that is alternately covered and uncovered by the tide, and consisting of unconsolidated sediment (mostly mud and sand). It may form the top surface of a deltaic deposit.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沙坪
Translation: 没有植物的沙的潮汐滩地。潮汐滩地广阔的、几乎水平的、沼泽或贫瘠的土地，它间歇的被潮汐覆盖，由疏松的沉积物组成（主要是泥土和沙）。它可以构成三角洲沉积的表面。

Code: 7425
English Term: sand pit
Definition: A place where sand is extracted from the ground.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 砂坑
Translation: 在地面开采砂的位置。

Code: 7436
English Term: sanitary fitting
Definition: The set of furnishings designed for personal hygiene and the disposal of organic waste.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 卫生设备
Translation: 为个人卫生和有机废料的处置设计的装备。

Code: 7438
English Term: sanitary landfill
Definition: An engineered method of disposing of solid waste on land in a manner that protects the environment, by spreading the waste in thin layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume and covering it with compacted soil by the end of each working day or at more frequent intervals if necessary.&#10;(Source: CORBIT)
Chinese Term: 卫生掩埋
Translation: 用能保护环境的方法在陆地处理固体垃圾的工程化的方法，通过在薄层中散布废料，把废料压缩成最小的颗粒和在每个工作日的最后或如果需要在更频繁的时间间隔，使用紧实的土覆盖废料。

Code: 7443
English Term: sanitation
Definition: The study and use of practical measures for the preservation of public health.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 公共卫生
Translation: 为保护公共健康而研究和使用的应用方法。

Code: 7444
English Term: sanitation plan
Definition: Plans for the control of the physical factors in the human environment that can harm development, health, or survival.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 卫生计划
Translation: 对在人类环境中会影响生产、健康或生存的自然因素进行控制的计划。

Code: 7450
English Term: saprobe
Definition: Referring to the classification of organisms according to the way in which they tolerate pollution.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 污水生物
Translation: 按照生物忍受污染的方法分类。

Code: 7449
English Term: saprobic index
Definition: Indication or measure of the level of organic pollution.&#10;(Source: ALLa)
Chinese Term: 有机污染指数
Translation: 有机污染的指数或测量值。

Code: 7452
English Term: satellite
Definition: An object that orbits around a larger one. Artificial satellites orbiting the Earth are used for communications, the gathering of military intelligence, the monitoring of weather and other environmental phenomena, etc.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Chinese Term: 卫星
Translation: 围绕更大的物体旋转的物体。绕地球旋转的人造卫星用于通讯、军事情报搜集、天气和其它环境现象监测等。

Code: 11035
English Term: satellite account
Definition: A separate financial record or statement that discloses financial activity in a particular area and supplements existing financial records.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 附加账户
Translation: 在特定领域揭露财务活动并对现存的财务报告做补充和独立的财政报告或声明。

Code: 6253
English Term: satellite image
Definition: A pictorial representation of data projected onto a two-dimensional grid of individual picture elements (pixels) and acquired from a human-made vessel placed in orbit round a planet, moon or star.&#10;(Source: RSG)
Chinese Term: 卫星图像
Translation: 一种图像显示，显示映射到独立的图形元素（像素）的二维网格中的数据。这些图像通过放置在行星、月亮或恒星轨道上的人造设备获得。

Code: 7457
English Term: saving
Definition: The amount of current income which is not spent for survival or enjoyment.&#10;(Source: MGHME)
Chinese Term: 存款
Translation: 没有用于生活或娱乐的现金收入的数量。

Code: 7458
English Term: sawdust
Definition: Wood fragments made by a saw in cutting.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 锯屑
Translation: 在锯子锯的过程中产生的木头碎片。

Code: 14902
English Term: scene identification
Definition: A numeric string which uniquely identifies an image component of a geographical information system database.&#10;(Source: MTE)
Chinese Term: 景物标识
Translation: 唯一定义地理信息系统数据库中的图像部件的数字串。

Code: 7464
English Term: schistosomiasis
Definition: A disease in which humans are parasitized by any of three species of blood flukes: Schistosoma mansoni, S. haematobium, and S. japonicum; adult worms inhabit the blood vessels.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 血吸虫病
Translation: 一种病，人可以被三种血吸虫的任何一种寄生：曼氏血吸虫、埃及血吸虫和日本血吸虫；成虫栖息在血管。

Code: 7465
English Term: school
Definition: An institution or building at which children and young people receive education.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 学校
Translation: 孩子和年轻人接受教育的机构或建筑。

Code: 13310
English Term: school life
Definition: Any part or the sum of experiences had while attending an instructional institution, or the amount of time spent in such a program.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Chinese Term: 学校生活
Translation: 进入教育机构获得的经验的部分或总和，或在这些机构花费的时间。

Code: 7470
English Term: school teaching
Definition: Instruction or training received in any educational institution, but especially to persons under college age.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 学校教育
Translation: 在任何教育机构获得的教育或培训，特别针对在上大学之前的人。

Code: 13309
English Term: schoolwork
Definition: The material studied in or for an educational institution, comprising homework and work done in the classroom.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 学业
Translation: 在教育机构学习的内容，包括家庭作业和课堂作业。

Code: 7472
English Term: science
Definition: The study of the physical universe and its contents by means of reproducible observations, measurements, and experiments to establish, verify, or modify general laws to explain its nature and behaviour.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 科学
Translation: 物质世界和它的内容的研究，通过可重复的观察、测量和试验建立、验证或修改通用的规律来揭示物质世界的实质和行为。

Code: 7477
English Term: scientific and technical information
Definition: Knowledge communicated or received pertaining to the systematic study of the physical world or to the mechanical or industrial arts.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 科学和技术信息
Translation: 通过系统学习物质世界或通过学习机制或工业世界获得积累的知识。

Code: 11134
English Term: scientific committee
Definition: An organized group of persons elected or appointed to discuss scientific matters.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Chinese Term: 科学委员会
Translation: 被任命的讨论科学问题的人的组织。

Code: 7478
English Term: scientific co-operation
Definition:
Chinese Term: 科学合作
Translation:

Code: 11135
English Term: scientific dispute
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 科学争论
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 10129
English Term: scientific ecology
Definition: The study of the interrelationship among living organisms and between organisms and their environment, utilizing the methods or theories of science.&#10;(Source: DOE / APD)
Chinese Term: 科学生态
Translation: 生物之间和生物和环境之间的相互关系的研究，这项研究利用了科学的方法或理论。

Code: 7480
English Term: scientific policy
Definition: A course of action adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization, which promotes or determines the direction for the systematic study, research and experimentation of a particular aspect of the physical or material world, which may lead to scholarly contributions in a branch of knowledge.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 科学政策
Translation: 政府、企业或其它组织采用的一套行为，它推进或决定了物理或物质世界特定领域的系统的学习、研究和实验的方向，可能在知识的某个分支有学术性贡献。

Code: 11148
English Term: scientific research
Definition: Systematic investigation to establish facts or principles concerning a specific scientific subject.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Chinese Term: 科学研究
Translation: 为了建立覆盖某个科学课题的事实基础或原则而做的系统的研究。

Code: 7482
English Term: scoping procedure
Definition: The prescribed step or manner of proceeding in an environmental impact assessment, by which a public discussion is held to discuss the information that needs to be developed, the alternatives that need to be considered and other important environmental issues.&#10;(Source: ERG)
Chinese Term: 划分范围的过程
Translation: 环境影响评估中的指定的步骤或处理的方法，通过这样公众的讨论可以帮助协商关于需要发展、还需要考虑的其它问题和其它重要的环境因素等问题。

Code: 12321
English Term: scrap dump
Definition: Area where waste material, especially metal, is dumped.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 垃圾场
Translation: 废物特别是金属堆砌的地方。

Code: 7483
English Term: scrap material
Definition: Recyclable material from any manufacturing process or discarded consumer products.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 废材料
Translation: 从任何制造过程或丢弃的消费产品中产生的可回收材料。

Code: 7484
English Term: scrap material market
Definition: The trade or traffic in discarded or leftover materials that can be reused in some way.&#10;(Source: RHW / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 废材料市场
Translation: 能用某种方式重用丢弃的或剩余的材料的贸易。

Code: 7485
English Term: scrap material price
Definition: The amount of money or the monetary rate at which materials discarded from manufacturing operations can be bought or sold.&#10;(Source: TOE / RHW)
Chinese Term: 废材料价格
Translation: 制造过程中丢弃的材料能被买卖得到的收入或钱的比率。

Code: 7486
English Term: scrap metal
Definition: Any metal material discarded from manufacturing operations and usually suitable for reprocessing.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Chinese Term: 金属废物
Translation: 制造过程中丢弃的金属材料，通常可重用。

Code: 8866
English Term: scrap tyre
Definition: Recyclable material from discarded motor vehicle tyres.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 弃置车胎
Translation: 丢弃的汽车轮胎的可作为回收材料。

Code: 7489
English Term: scrap vehicle
Definition: Car which is delivered for breaking up or otherwise discarded.
Chinese Term: 废弃汽车
Translation: 因破损或其它原因被废弃的汽车。

Code: 7491
English Term: screening
Definition: The reduction of the electric field about a nucleus by the space charge of the surrounding electrons.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 屏蔽
Translation: 原子核的电场减弱，对周围电子的束缚力减少。

Code: 7495
English Term: sea
Definition: 1) In general, the marine section of the globe as opposed to that of the land. &#10;2) The name given to a body of salt water smaller than an ocean and generally in proximity to a continent.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 海
Translation: 1）通常，地球的海的部分，和陆地对应。&#10;2）指比大洋小并且靠近陆地的盐水实体。

Code: 7497
English Term: sea bed
Definition: The bottom of the ocean. Also known as sea floor; sea bottom. The ocean floor is defined as the near-horizontal surface of the ocean basin.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海床
Translation: 海底。通常叫海地面、海底。海地面定义为大洋盆地几乎水平的表面。

Code: 7498
English Term: sea bed exploitation
Definition: Marine mineral resources extend far beyond those presently exploited; minerals are derived from two separate types of marine sources: from sedimentary deposits underlying the continental shelves and from inshore deposits on the surface of the continental shelves. By far the most valuable of the mineral resources exploited from marine environments is petroleum. Offshore placer deposits on the surface of the continental shelves yield gold, platinum, and tin. On the floors of the world's oceans manganese nodules are found as a result of pelagic sedimentation or precipitation; they are small, irregular, black to brown, friable, laminated concretionary masses consisting primarily of manganese salts and manganese-oxide minerals.&#10;(Source: PARCOR /  BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 海底开采
Translation: 海洋的矿物资源比现在开采出的多得多；矿物从俩种不同的海洋资源中获得：从构成大陆架的沉积物和从在大陆架表面的近海岸的沉积物。到目前为止，从海里开采出的最有价值的矿物资源是石油。大陆架的表面近海的冲积矿淤积产生金子、白金和锡。从大洋地面的远洋沉淀中找到锰结核；它们是小的、不规则的、黑色或棕色的、易碎的、大量薄片块状的，主要由锰盐和锰氧化物金属组成。

Code: 7500
English Term: sea bed mining
Definition: The activity or processes involving the extraction of mineral deposits from the surface, or below the surface, of the ocean floor.&#10;(Source: MLM)
Chinese Term: 海底采矿
Translation: 在大洋地面的活动或操作，包括从表面或表面下开采金属沉积物。

Code: 7502
English Term: sea circulation
Definition: Large-scale horizontal water motion within an ocean. The way energy from the sun, stored in the sea, is transported around the world. The currents explain, for example, why the UK has ice-free ports in winter, while St. Petersburg, at the same latitude as the Shetland Islands, needs ice breakers. Evidence is growing that the world's ocean circulation was very different during the last ice age and has changed several times in the distant past, with dramatic effects on climate. The oceans are vital as storehouses, as they absorb more than half the sun's heat reaching the earth. This heat, which is primarily absorbed near the equator is carried around the world and released elsewhere, creating currents which last up to 1.000 years. As the Earth rotates and the wind acts upon the surface, currents carry warm tropical water to the cooler parts of the world. The strength and direction of the currents are affected by landmasses, bottlenecks through narrow straits, and even the shape of the sea-bed. When the warm water reaches polar regions its heat evaporates into the atmosphere, reducing its temperature and increasing its density. When sea-water freezes it leaves salt behind in the unfrozen water and this cold water sinks into the ocean and begins to flow back to the tropics. Eventually it is heated and begins the cycle all over again.&#10;(Source: MGH /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 海循环
Translation: 大洋中的大规模的水平的水的流动。通过这种方法可以将保存在海中的来自太阳的能量传到全世界。对水流的解释，例如，为什么英国有在冬天不结冰的港口，然而圣彼得斯堡和设得兰群岛有相同的纬度但需要破冰设备。证据说明世界的大洋环流在上次冰河时代非常不同，并且在很远的过去变化过几次，这对气候有很大影响。大洋像宝藏一样重要，因为它吸收了到达地球的太阳的热量的一大半。这些热量主要是在赤道附近被吸收的，被带到全世界并到处释放。它们产生了持续1000年的水流。当地球旋转和风吹过地面，水流带着热的热带的水到世界的寒冷地区。水流的强度和方向受到陆地、通过狭窄的海峡瓶颈、甚至海床的形状的影响。当热水到了地级附近，它的热量在大气中消失，它的温度降低，密度增加。当海水结冰了，它向未结冰的水中释放盐，冷水下沉到大海中并回流到热带。最后它变热并重新开始循环。

Code: 10574
English Term: sea grass bed
Definition: Seaweeds communities formed by green, brown and red macroscopic algae and by sea phanerogams such as Posidonia oceanica and Zostera noltii, etc.&#10;(Source: PARCORa)
Chinese Term: 海草场
Translation: 由绿色、棕色和红色的大的海藻和海洋显花植物例如波西多尼亚水生植物和矮大叶藻等组成的海藻群落。

Code: 7513
English Term: sea level
Definition: The level of the surface of the ocean; especially, the mean level halfway between high and low tide, used as a standard in reckoning land elevation or sea depths.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海平面
Translation: 海洋表面的水平面；特别的，在高潮和低潮之间的平面，用作估计地面高度或海的深度的标准。

Code: 7514
English Term: sea level rise
Definition: Sea-level rises are a possible consequence of global warming. As the amount of free water in the oceans increases, and as the water becomes warmer, global warming will increase. In addition, according to theory, the heating at the poles may reduce the amount of water trapped in glaciers and ice caps.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 海平面升高
Translation: 海平面升高是全球变暖的可能结果。当海洋中自由水总量增加并且水变得更热，全球变暖增加。除此之外，按照理论来说，极点变热会减少在冰川和冰盖中的水量。

Code: 7520
English Term: sea outfall
Definition: The point, location or structure where effluent discharges into a body of marine waters such as a sea, ocean, etc.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Chinese Term: 海排水口
Translation: 一个地点或结构，在这里的排出物被排放到海水中，例如海、大洋等。

Code: 7525
English Term: sea resource
Definition: Marine resources include food, energy and minerals.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Chinese Term: 海洋资源
Translation: 海洋资源包括食品、能源和矿物。

Code: 7535
English Term: sea water
Definition: Aqueous solution of salts in more or less constant ratio, whose composition depends on several factors among which predominate living organisms, detrital sedimentation and the related chemical reactions. Sea-water accounts for more than 98% of the mass of the hydrosphere and covers just over 70% of the globe. Because of the composition and stability of the oceans, and the way they are controlled, they are of great importance to the climate, and great attention has been given to studying the effects of pollution. Man's activities are believed to be accelerating the change in the composition of sea-water.&#10;(Source: DODERO /  WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 海水
Translation: 以多少的固定比例溶解盐的溶剂，它的组成依赖于几个因素，主要的包括生物、沉积碎屑和相关化学反应。海水有98%的水并覆盖全球70%。因为海洋的组成和稳定性和它们被控制的方式，它们对气候非常重要。人们对海水污染的研究很重视。人们的活动被认为加速了海水组成的变化。

Code: 7536
English Term: sea water desalination
Definition: Removing salt from ocean or brackish water.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 海水脱盐
Translation: 从海水或咸味的水中去掉盐。

Code: 7538
English Term: sea water protection
Definition:
Chinese Term: 海水保护
Translation:

Code: 9262
English Term: sea wave
Definition: A moving ridge or swell of water occurring close to the surface of the sea, characterized by oscillating and rising and falling movements, often as a result of the frictional drag of the wind.&#10;(Source: OED / INP)
Chinese Term: 海浪
Translation: 在海洋表面活动的水的山脊或鼓起，特点是要懂得和起伏的运动。通常是风的摩擦产生的。

Code: 7519
English Term: seal (technical)
Definition: Any device or system that creates a nonleaking union between two mechanical or process-system elements.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 密封机（技术的）
Translation: 在两个机械的或过程系统的部分之间建立不漏任何物质的单元设备或系统。

Code: 7516
English Term: sealing
Definition: Luting, making watertight, waterproofing.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 密封
Translation: 封住，使不漏水，防水。

Code: 7528
English Term: seashore
Definition: The zone of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the low water-line to where there is marked change in material or physiographic form or to the line of permanent vegetation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 海岸
Translation: 松散物质的地区，从低水位向在物质或地形学的上有很大变化的地区或永久的植物线扩展。

Code: 10906
English Term: seaside footpath
Definition: A route or track running along the coast.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 海边小路
Translation: 沿海岸边的路或轨道。

Code: 10909
English Term: seaside resort
Definition: A place near the sea where people spend their holidays and enjoy themselves.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 海边胜地
Translation: 海边的地点，人们在这里度假放松。

Code: 7529
English Term: season
Definition: One of the four equal periods into which the year is divided by the equinoxes and solstices, resulting from the apparent movement of the sun north and south of the equator during the course of the earth's orbit around it. These periods (spring, summer, autumn and winter) have their characteristic weather conditions in different regions, and occur at opposite times of the year in the N and S hemispheres.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 季节
Translation: 四个相等时间段中的一个，一年按照岁差和太阳回归点分成这四个时间段。这是按照太阳在地球围绕太阳旋转的路线上的赤道南北回归线的移动来划分的。在这四个阶段（春天、夏天、秋天和冬天），不同地区有不同气候特点，并且在南北半球的时间正好相反。

Code: 7531
English Term: seasonal migration
Definition: The periodic movement of a population from one region or climate to another in accordance with the yearly cycle of weather and temperature changes.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 季节性迁移
Translation: 人口从一个地区或气候定期地迁移到另一个地区，这种移动按照天气和温度每年循环变化。

Code: 11133
English Term: seasonal variation
Definition: In time series, that part of the movement which is assigned to the effect of the seasons on the year.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 季节性变化
Translation: 在一定时间内，受到每年的季节影响而产生移动的部分。

Code: 7541
English Term: secondary biotope
Definition: In the case of disruption of an existing biotope, secondary biotope can be created as a compensation and substitute measure for the loss of the natural one.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 次级生物群落
Translation: 在已存在的群落分裂的情况下，次级群落是失去原来群落的补充和替代方法。

Code: 7542
English Term: secondary education
Definition: The years of instruction following elementary school and until the end of high school.&#10;(Source: COE)
Chinese Term: 中等教育
Translation: 在初等教育之后的教育，直到高中结束。

Code: 7548
English Term: secondary sector
Definition: The part of a country or region's economy that produces commodities without much direct use of natural resources.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Chinese Term: 制造业
Translation: 生产商品但不需要直接使用很多自然资源的国家或地区经济部门。

Code: 12608
English Term: secondary treatment
Definition: Stage of the process of waste water treatment: following primary treatment by sedimentation, the second step in most wastewater systems in which biological organisms decompose most of the organic matter into a innocuous, stable form.&#10;(Source: CORBIT /  WQA)
Chinese Term: 二次处理
Translation: 废水处理过程：在通过沉淀处理的第一次处理之后，大多数废水处理系统的第二步是微生物把有机物分解成无害的、稳定的状态。

Code: 7551
English Term: second-hand goods
Definition: Goods or products that have been used previously.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Chinese Term: 二手商品
Translation: 以前被使用过的商品或产品。

Code: 14854
English Term: sectoral assessment
Definition:
Chinese Term: 部门评估
Translation:

Code: 7557
English Term: security of installations
Definition: Measures, techniques or designs implemented to protect from harm or restrict access to any apparatus, machinery or construction put in place or connected for use.&#10;(Source: RHW / MHD)
Chinese Term: 安装安全
Translation: 在保护任何仪器、机械或建筑的放置或使用以免其受到损坏的过程中所使用的方法、技术或设计。

Code: 7565
English Term: sediment
Definition: Any material transported by water which will ultimately settle to the bottom after the water loses its transporting power.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 沉积物
Translation: 任何被水输送的物质，当水失去了输送力量之后，最后沉到水底。

Code: 14850
English Term: sediment mobilisation
Definition: The transport or setting in motion by wind or water of insoluble particulate matter.&#10;(Source: APD / RHW)
Chinese Term: 沉积物移动
Translation: 不能溶解的物质被风或水搬运和放置。

Code: 7566
English Term: sediment transport
Definition: The movement and carrying- away of sediment by natural agents; especially the conveyance of a stream load by suspension, saltation, solution or traction.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沉积物搬运
Translation: 通过自然力量移动沉积物；特别是通过溪流的悬浮、跳动、溶解或拖动来搬运。

Code: 7560
English Term: sedimentary basin
Definition: A geomorphic feature of the earth in which the surface has subsided for a prolonged time, including deep ocean floors, intercontinental rifts and elevated and interior drainage basins.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Chinese Term: 沉积盆地
Translation: 地球的地貌特性，地表通过很长时间的沉降，包括很深的海底、大陆架和升起的以及内陆干涸的盆地。

Code: 7563
English Term: sedimentation (geology)
Definition: The act or process of forming or accumulating sediment in layers, including such processes as the separation of rock particles from the material from which the sediment is derived, the transportation of these particles to the site of deposition, the actual deposition or settling of the particles, the chemical and other changes occurring in the sediment, and the ultimate consolidation of the sediment into solid rock.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沉积（地质学）
Translation: 在地层中形成或积累沉积物的活动或过程，包括从物质中分离岩石微粒的过程，沉积物是这样产生的：这些微粒被运输到沉积地点形成微粒的沉积，沉积中发生的化学或其它变化，和最后沉积物固化形成岩石。

Code: 7562
English Term: sedimentation (industrial process)
Definition: The separation of an insoluble solid from a liquid in which it is suspended by settling under the influence of gravity or centrifugation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 沉积（工业处理）
Translation: 通过重力或离心作用从液体中分离悬浮在其中的不溶解的固体。

Code: 12279
English Term: sedimentation basin
Definition: A basin in which suspended matter is removed either by quiescent settlement or by continuous flow at high velocity and extended retention time to allow deposition.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 沉积盆地
Translation: 一个盆地，在那里悬浮物被静态沉降或被连续流体高速移动，经过很长时间使它们沉积下来。

Code: 12139
English Term: sedimentology
Definition: The scientific study of sedimentary rocks and of the processes by which they were formed; the description, classification, origin, and interpretation of sediments.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 沉积学
Translation: 对沉积岩和它们形成的过程的科学研究；对沉积物的描述、分类、起源和解释。

Code: 7567
English Term: seed (biology)
Definition: A mature fertilized plant ovule, consisting of an embryo and its food store surrounded by a protective seed coat (testa).&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 种子（生物）
Translation: 一个成熟的受精的植物胚珠，由胚胎和保护胚胎的种衣（外种皮）包围的营养储备组成。

Code: 11184
English Term: seed (product)
Definition: A fertilized ovule containing an embryo which forms a new plant upon germination.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 种子（生产）
Translation: 包含胚胎的受精的胚珠，在发芽后形成新的植物。

Code: 7568
English Term: seed dressing
Definition: A chemical applied before planting to protect seeds and seedlings from disease or insects.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 拌种
Translation: 为了保护种子免受病虫侵扰，在种植之前使用化学药剂处理。

Code: 7574
English Term: seepage water
Definition: Water that moves slowly through small openings of a porous material such as soil or the amount of water that has been involved in seepage.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 泄漏水
Translation: 水慢慢通过很小的可渗透物质的开口例如泥土或已经泄漏的水。

Code: 7575
English Term: seismic activity
Definition: The phenomenon of Earth movements.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 地震活动
Translation: 地球活动的现象。

Code: 10055
English Term: seismic engineering
Definition: The study of the behavior of foundations and structures relative to seismic ground motion, and the attempt to mitigate the effect of earthquakes on structures.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 地震工程
Translation: 对地震地区相关的结构和行为的研究，致力于减轻地震对结构的影响。

Code: 7578
English Term: seismic monitoring
Definition: The gathering of seismic data from an area.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Chinese Term: 地震监测
Translation: 从一个地区搜集地震数据。

Code: 7579
English Term: seismic sea wave
Definition: A large seismically generated sea wave which is capable of considerable destruction in certain coastal areas, especially where submarine earthquakes occur. Although in the open ocean the wave height may be less than one meter it steepens to hights of 15 metres or more on entering shallow coastal water. The wavelength in the open ocean is of the order of 100 to 150 km and the rate of travel of a seismic sea wave is between 640 and 960 km/h.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 地震的海浪
Translation: 很大的地震引起的海浪，会在海岸地区摧毁很多房屋，特别是当发生海底地震时。尽管大部分海域，海浪的高度可能低于一米，但当它进入狭窄的海岸流域，海浪会升高到15米或更高。在开阔的海域，海浪的宽度是100到150公里，地震引起的海浪传播速度是640到960公里每小时之间。

Code: 7581
English Term: seizure
Definition: The official or legally authorized act of taking away possessions or property, often for a violation of law or to enforce a judgment imposed by a court of law.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Chinese Term: 没收
Translation: 官方或法律授权的拿走所有物或财产的行为，这通常是因为触犯法律或法庭的强制执行。

Code: 7582
English Term: seizure of profits
Definition: The official or legally authorized act of taking away monetary gain or surplus resulting from investments or property or from returns, proceeds or revenue in a business or business transaction.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 利益没收
Translation: 官方或法律授权的行为，拿走从投资或财产，或从回报、收益或在商业交易或业务收入中的通过税收得来的金钱或额外的收入。

Code: 7584
English Term: selection of technology
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 技术选择
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7586
English Term: selective breeding of animals
Definition: Breeding of animals having desirable characters.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 动物的选择性饲养
Translation: 养育具有所希望特性的动物。

Code: 7588
English Term: selective breeding of plants
Definition: Breeding of plants having desirable characters.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 植物的选择性饲养
Translation: 养育具有所希望特性的植物。

Code: 14889
English Term: selective dissemination of information
Definition: A service provided by a library or other agency that periodically notifies users of new publications, report literature or other data sources in subjects in which the user has specified an interest.&#10;(Source: CCL)
Chinese Term: 信息选择性分发
Translation: 图书馆或其它机构提供的服务，定期通知用户新的出版物，报告文学作品或其它用户感兴趣的主题的数据资源。

Code: 7590
English Term: selenium
Definition: A highly toxic, nonmetallic element; used in analytical chemistry, metallurgy, and photoelectric cells.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 硒
Translation: 高毒性的非金属元素；用于分析化学、冶金和光电细胞。

Code: 7592
English Term: self-help programme
Definition: A series of steps or a system of services or activities designed to enable an individual to help or improve one's self without depending on the aid of others.&#10;(Source: WOR)
Chinese Term: 自助计划
Translation: 一系列步骤或一套服务或活动，用来使个人不需要依靠他人帮助就能实现自身目标。

Code: 7593
English Term: self-monitoring
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 自我监视
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7594
English Term: self-purification
Definition: A natural process of organic degradation that produces nutrients utilized by autotrophic organisms.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Chinese Term: 自我净化
Translation: 生物腐烂产生能被腐生生物利用的物质的自然过程。

Code: 7595
English Term: semi-arid land ecosystem
Definition: The interacting system of a biological community and its non-living environmental surroundings in regions that have between 10 to 20 inches of rainfall and are capable of sustaining some grasses and shrubs but not woodland.&#10;(Source: TOE / DOE)
Chinese Term: 半干旱陆地生态系统
Translation: 生态社区中相互影响的系统，它的无生命地区的降雨量在10到20英寸之间，这只能够草和灌木生存但树木不能存活。

Code: 7597
English Term: semiconductor
Definition: A solid crystalline material whose electrical conductivity is intermediate between that of a metal and an insulator and is usually strongly temperature-dependent.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 半导体
Translation: 一种固体透明的物质，它的电传导性在金属和绝缘体之间并且其传到性能依赖于温度。

Code: 14957
English Term: semi-liquid manure
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 半液体肥料
Translation: 不需要定义。

Code: 7599
English Term: semimanufactured product
Definition: Product that has undergone a partial processing and is used as raw material in a successive productive step.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Chinese Term: 半制造产品
Translation: 通过特别处理制造的产品并在后续生产中用作原材料。

Code: 7600
English Term: semi-metal
Definition: An element having some properties characteristic of metals and others of non-metals. Many metalloids give rise to an amphoteric oxide (e.g. arsenic or antimony) and many are semiconductors.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Chinese Term: 半金属
Translation: 有一些金属特性和非金属特性的元素。很多非金属物质产生两性的氧化物（例如砷或锑）并且很多是半导体。

Code: 7603
English Term: sensitive area
Definition: Areas of a country where special measures may be given to protect the natural habitats which present a high level of vulnerability.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 敏感地区
Translation: 国家的某些地区，在那里为了保护非常脆弱的原著民而给予它们特别的政策。

Code: 10197
English Term: sensitive environment
Definition: Any parcel of land, large or small, under public or private control, that already has, or with remedial action could achieve, desirable environmental attributes. These attributes contribute to the retention and/or creation of wildlife habitat, soils stability, water retention or recharge, vegetative cover, and similar vital ecological functions. Environmentally sensitive areas range in size from small patches to extensive landscape features. They can include rare or common habitats, plants and animals.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Chinese Term: 敏感的环境
Translation: 通常对任何大块或小块的、私有或共有的土地做的补救性的行动，使其具有所希望的环境属性。这些属性有助于建保护区和/或建立野生动物居住地、土壤稳定性、水保护区、植物覆盖和相似的重要的生态功能。环境敏感地区的大小从一小块到很大。它们包括少量的或普通的居住者、植物和动物。

Code: 10190
English Term: sensitive natural area
Definition: Terrestrial or aquatic area or other fragile natural setting with unique or highly-valued environmental features.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 敏感的自然地区
Translation: 具有独特的或高价值的环境特性的陆地或水地或其它脆弱的自然居住地。

Code: 7604
English Term: sensitivity analysis
Definition: A formalized procedure to identify the impact of changes in various model components on model output. Sensitivity analysis is an integral part of simulation experimentation and may influence model formulations. It is commonly used to examine model behaviour. The general procedure is to define a model output variable that represents an important aspect of model behaviour. The values of various inputs of the model are then varied and the resultant change in the output variable is monitored. Large changes in the output variable imply that the particular input varied is important in controlling model behaviour. Within this general definition, sensitivity analysis has been applied to a variety of model inputs including state variables, environmental variables and initial conditions.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Chinese Term: 灵敏度分析
Translation: 描述在模型输出中模型部分的变化影响模式公式化的过程。灵敏度分析是模拟实验的集成并且可能影响模型公式。它通常用于测试模型的行为。通常的过程是定义一个能说明模型行为的重要部分的模型输出变量。模型有很多不同的输入值，随之变化的输出值被监测。输出变量的很大变化说明相关的输入的变化对控制模型的行为非常重要。在这个通用的定义中，灵敏度分析用于很多模型输入，包括状态变量、环境变量和初始条件。

Code: 11700
English Term: sensor
Definition: The generic name for a device that senses either the absolute value or a change in a physical quantity such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, or pH, or the intensity of light, sound, or ratio waves and converts that change into a useful input signal for an information-gathering system.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 传感器
Translation: 一种设备的名字，这种设备感应物理数量的绝对值或变化，例如温度、压强、水流量、或pH值、或光、声音、或声波的强度并把它们转换成有用的输入信号以被信息搜集系统处理。

Code: 12275
English Term: separate sewer system
Definition: Sewer system having distinct pipes for collecting superficial water and sewage water.&#10;(Source: FLGISA)
Chinese Term: 分离的排水系统
Translation: 排水系统，有不同的管道搜集地表水和污水。

Code: 7609
English Term: separated collection
Definition: The collection of individual components of solid waste from any source, usually separated into different collection containers, in order to recover, reuse or recycle the material or to facilitate its collection and disposal.&#10;(Source: GSW)
Chinese Term: 分类搜集
Translation: 从任何来源搜集单独的固体成分。为了复原、重用或回收物质或者使它的搜集和处理更加容易，通常把这些来源按所含不同废物的类型划分。

Code: 5081
English Term: separation
Definition: The separation of one substance from another when they are intimately mixed. For example the removal of oil from water, or gas from oil or oil from gas, etc.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Chinese Term: 分离
Translation: 当物质混合在一起时从中分离出某种物质。例如从水中去除油或从油中去除气或从气中去除油等。

Code: 7611
English Term: separation at source
Definition: Segregating various wastes at the point of generation (e.g. separation of paper, metal and glass from other wastes) to make recycling simpler and more efficient.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 来源区分
Translation: 从来源上分离不同废物（例如从其它废物中区分纸、金属和玻璃）以使回收更简单和有效。

Code: 7612
English Term: separator
Definition: A machine for separating materials of different specific gravity by means of water or air.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 分离器
Translation: 分离水或空气中不同比重物质的设备。

Code: 4815
English Term: separator of light liquids
Definition: A mechanical device for separating and removing residues from fuel and lubricating oil from waste water coming from filling stations and industrial plants in order to avoid pollution of water bodies; this system is based on the different specific weights of water and fuel residues that float on the water and can be easily removed.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 轻液体分离器
Translation: 一种机械设备，用于从燃料中分离和去除残渣和从来自加油站和工厂的废水中去除润滑油，这是为了避免污染水体；该系统基于水的不同比重，浮在水上的燃料残渣可以容易地被去掉。

Code: 7613
English Term: septic tank
Definition: A tank, usually underground, into which sewage flows, the deposited matter being wholly, or partially broken down through anaerobic action. The final effluent may be allowed to soak into the ground through a system of agricultural drains, if the soil is suitable. Alternatively, the tank must be emptied at regular intervals by a special road-tanker.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 腐败罐
Translation: 一个罐子，通常在地底，在罐子里污水全部或部分发酵分解。如果土壤适合，最后剩余的液体可能通过农业排水系统渗透到土里。反之，罐子必须定期通过特殊的运输车来清空。

Code: 7616
English Term: sequestration
Definition: 1) A legal term referring generally to the act of valuable property being taken into custody by an agent of the court and locked away for safekeeping, usually to prevent the property from being disposed of or abused before a dispute over its ownership can be resolved.&#10; 2) The taking of someone's property, voluntarily (by deposit) or involuntarily (by seizure), by court officers or into the possession of a third party, awaiting the outcome of a trial in which ownership of that property is at issue.&#10;(Source: DUC /  EMBMO)
Chinese Term: 扣押
Translation: 1）法律术语，通常指有价值的财务数据被法庭的代理监管并为了更好保存它而被锁起，这通常是为了在决定财务所有权之前，防止财务被处置或滥用。2）法庭人员或由第三方拿走他人的财务数据，自愿地（通过抵押）或不自愿地（通过没收），等待法庭宣布该财务的所有权。

Code: 7618
English Term: service area
Definition: The area served by a particular public facility such as school, library, police station, park, etc.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 服务地点
Translation: 用于公众设施的地点，例如学校、图书馆、警察局、公园等。

Code: 7621
English Term: services
Definition: The carrying out of work for which there is a constant public demand by the provision of labor and the utilization of tools.&#10;(Source: OED)
Chinese Term: 服务
Translation: 有固定公众需求的提供劳动和使用工具的工作。

Code: 14960
English Term: services providing company
Definition:
Chinese Term: 提供服务的公司
Translation:

Code: 7622
English Term: settlement concentration
Definition: The distribution or total amount of communities, villages and houses within a specified geographic area.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 集中安置
Translation: 在特定地点安置全体社区、村庄和家庭。

Code: 7627
English Term: settling tank
Definition: A tank into which a two-phase mixture is fed and the entrained solids settle by gravity during storage.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 安放槽
Translation: 装有两种混合物的槽，在存储中通过引力装入固体。

Code: 7628
English Term: sewage
Definition: Any liquid-born waste that contains animal or plant matter in suspension or solution, soils and storm water, or chemicals in solution.&#10;(Source: APD)
Chinese Term: 污水
Translation: 任何包含动物或植物悬浮物或溶液的、包含泥土或雨水的或者化学溶液的液体废料。

Code: 7629
English Term: sewage disposal
Definition:
Chinese Term: 污水处理
Translation:

Code: 7630
English Term: sewage farm
Definition: Area of land on which sewage or any other type of waste water is distributed in order to purify it; it is a kind of waste water treatment.&#10;(Source: RRDA /  ECHO2)
Chinese Term: 污水处理场
Translation: 一片场地，污水或任何其它类型的废水放在那里净化；是一种废水处理设施。

Code: 7632
English Term: sewage sludge
Definition: A semi-liquid waste with a solid concentration in excess of 2500 parts per million, obtained from the purification of municipal sewage.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 污水污泥
Translation: 通过城市污水净化获得的，固体含量超过百万分之2500的半液体的废料。

Code: 718
English Term: sewage spreading prohibition
Definition: Prohibition of spreading sewage sludge on land to prevent accumulation of toxic heavy metals in excessive quantities.&#10;(Source: PORTa)
Chinese Term: 禁止污水蔓延
Translation: 为了防止土地中积累的有毒重金属超量，禁止污水污泥在地上排放。

Code: 7636
English Term: sewage treatment system
Definition: Sewage treatment comes in two stages - primary and secondary treatment. The primary stage involves a process of screening solids from sewage, leaving a sludge and relatively clear water for further treatment or for disposal into rivers, the sea or on to the land. In the secondary stage the sludge is stirred constantly in vast tanks to get more oxygen into the mixture, allowing bacteria to break down the organic matter and leave a harmless residue that falls as a sediment to the bottom of the tank. After processing, the clear water on top of the tank is discharged into rivers and the sediment is used as landfill or discharged at sea.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Chinese Term: 污水处理系统
Translation: 污水处理分为两步——初级和中级处理。初级处理包括从污水中去掉固体，留下做进一步处理或进入河流、海或土地中的泥浆以及相对干净的水。中级处理中，泥浆在很大的罐中搅拌以混入更多的氧气，使细菌分解有机物质并且留下无害的剩余物，这些剩余物沉积在罐的底部。处理之后，罐上部的干净的水被排放到河里，沉积物作为填埋物或排放到海里。

Code: 7641
English Term: sewerage system
Definition: System of pipes, usually underground, for carrying waste water and human waste away from houses and other buildings, to a place where they can be safely get rid of.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Chinese Term: 污水系统
Translation: 通常在地下的水管系统，用来把废水和人类产生的废料从房子和其它建筑物中输送到能安全处理它们的地方。

Code: 7646
English Term: shellfish
Definition:
Chinese Term: 贝类
Translation:

Code: 10744
English Term: shellfish farming
Definition: Raising of shellfish in inland waters, estuaries or coastal waters, for commercial purposes. All commercial shellfish beds producing bivalve molluscs must be monitored for microbial contamination. Samples of water and shellfish flesh must be tested for the presence of algal toxins. Periodic monitoring of fish and shellfish must be carried out to check for the presence of contaminants.&#10;(Source: WRIGHTa /  MAFF)
Chinese Term: 贝类养殖
Translation: 为了商业用途在内陆水域、河口或沿海水域养殖贝类。所有生产双壳类软体动物的商业使用的贝类床必须监控微生物污染。水和贝类肉的样本必须做藻毒素量的测试。必须定期监测鱼和贝类以检查污染。

Code: 10495
English Term: shelter
Definition: Cover or protection, as from weather or danger; place of refuge.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 隐藏处
Translation: 遮盖或保护，可以应对气候变化或危险；避难所。

Code: 7651
English Term: shielding device
Definition: Barriers devised for keeping away from people harmful substances.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Chinese Term: 屏蔽设备
Translation: 使人们远离有害物质的屏障。

Code: 7652
English Term: shifting cultivation
Definition: Agricultural practice using the rotation of fields rather than crops, short cropping periods followed by long fallows and the maintenance of fertility by the regeneration of vegetation.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Chinese Term: 轮耕
Translation: 一种农业生产方法，土地轮换地耕种而不是仅在一块地上耕种。这样在短期耕种后会有长期的休耕，能通过作物的再生保持土地的肥沃。

Code: 7654
English Term: ship
Definition: A vessel propelled by engines or sails for navigating on the water, especially a large vessel that can not be carried aboard another, as distinguished from a boat.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 运输
Translation: 通过发动机或帆推动而航行在水中的船只，特别指那些不同于小船的且不能由其它船装载的大船。

Code: 7662
English Term: ship garbage
Definition: Domestic and operational wastes, disposed of continuously or periodically, that are generated during the normal operation of a ship; usually excluding fresh fish waste from fishing operations.&#10;(Source: NGT)
Chinese Term: 垃圾运输
Translation: 连续或间断产生的家庭或处理的垃圾，在运输的操作中产生。这些垃圾通常不包括渔业捕获的新鲜鱼产品。

Code: 7663
English Term: ship waste disposal
Definition: Discharging of ship waste into the sea.
Chinese Term: 船上垃圾处理
Translation: 把船上的垃圾倒到海里。

Code: 7655
English Term: shipbuilding
Definition: The art or business of designing and constructing ships.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Chinese Term: 造船
Translation: 设计和建造船的艺术或业务。

Code: 7659
English Term: shipping accident
Definition: An unexpected incident, failure or loss involving a vessel or its contents in the course of commercial transport that poses potential harm to persons, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 运输事故
Translation: 在商业运输中车辆或货物发生的事故、失误或损失。这可能会引起对人、财产或环境的危害。

Code:5912
English Term:organic substance
Definition:Chemical compounds, based on carbon chains or rings and also containing hydrogen with or without oxygen, nitrogen, or other elements.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 有机物质
Translation: 含碳原子的化合物，通常还包含氢原子，可以包含氧、氮及其它元素。

Code:5913
English Term:organic waste
Definition:Waste containing carbon compounds; derived from animal and plant materials.&#10;(Source: PUE)
Chinese Term: 有机废料
Translation: 包含碳化合物的废料，来自于动物和植物机体。

Code:13286
English Term:organisation (law)
Definition:Term used in commercial law, including a corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, two or more persons having a joint or common interest, or any other legal or commercial entity.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Chinese Term: 组织
Translation: 法律术语，通常用于公司、政府、管理机构、商业代理、信贷或合作组织，是两个或两个以上的人组成的共同利益体。

Code:13157
English Term:organisation of teaching
Definition:A group or association of persons united to address the concerns, methods and professional status of instructors or educators.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 教育组织
Translation: 专业的指导者或教育家组成的组织。

Code:13146
English Term:organisation of the legal system
Definition:The specific manner, form and institutions by which a government's ability to make, enforce and interpret laws are brought together into a coordinated whole.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 法律组织
Translation: 由政府制定的，强制执行并解释的法律形式和机关。

Code:10837
English Term:organisation of work
Definition:The coordination or structuring of work practices and production processes in order to influence the way jobs are designed and performed in the workplace.&#10;(Source: NIO)
Chinese Term: 工作的组织
Translation: 协调工作实践和生产过程，从而影响工作流程的设计和执行。

Code:5914
English Term:organism
Definition:An individual constituted to carry out all life functions.&#10;(Source: MGH)。
Chinese Term: 有机物
Translation: 具有所有生命功能的个体

Code:5921
English Term:organochlorine compound
Definition:Organic compounds containing a C-Cl bond.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 有机氯类化合物
Translation: 含碳和氯的化合物。

Code:5924
English Term:organohalogen compound
Definition:Organic compounds containing a C-halogen bond.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 有机卤素化合物
Translation: 含碳和卤素的化合物。

Code:11816
English Term:organoleptic property
Definition:Properties that can be perceived by sense organs.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 感官特性
Translation: 感觉器官能获得的特性。

Code:5927
English Term:organometallic compound
Definition:Molecules containing carbon-metal linkage; a compound containing an alkyl or aryl radical bonded to a metal.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 有机金属化合物
Translation: 分子化合物含碳和金属链；或者含有烷基芳的粘结金属。

Code:5928
English Term:organonitrogen compound
Definition:Organic compounds having a C-N bond.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 有机氮化合物
Translation: 含碳和氮的化合物。

Code:5929
English Term:organooxygen compound
Definition:Compounds, both aliphatic and aromatic, which have a C-O bond, including alcohols, aldehydes, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 有机氧化合物
Translation: 化合物，脂肪族和芳香族，包括酒精、醋醛等。

Code:5931
English Term:organophosphorous compound
Definition:Pesticides that contain phosphorous; short-lived, but some can be toxic when first applied.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 有机磷化合物
Translation: 包含亚磷的杀虫剂；一些是有毒性的。

Code:5935
English Term:organosilicon compound
Definition:Any natural substance composed of two or more unlike atoms held together by chemical bonds and containing silicon, a non-metallic element often found in rocks or minerals.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Chinese Term: 有机硅化合物
Translation:由两个或多个化学键构成且包含硅的原子，该非金属元素在岩石或矿物中经常被发现。

Code:5936
English Term:organosulphur compound
Definition:One of a group of substances which contain both carbon and sulfur.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 有机硫化合物
Translation: 含碳和硫的化合物。

Code:5937
English Term:organotin compound
Definition:Chemical compounds used in anti-foulant paints to protect the hulls of boats and ships, buoys and pilings from marine organisms such as barnacles.&#10;(Source: EPAGLO)
Chinese Term: 有机锡化合物
Translation: 用于油漆的化合物，可以保护小船的船身和船体、浮体和打桩免受海洋有机物的破坏，包括眼镜薄膜。

Code:5942
English Term:ornithology
Definition:The branch of zoology that deals with the study of birds, including their physiology, classification, ecology, and behaviour.&#10;(Source: AMHER /  CED)
Chinese Term: 鸟类学
Translation: 鸟的研究，包括它们的生理、分类、生态和行为动物学的分支。

Code:5944
English Term:orography
Definition:A rarely used word referring to the study of mountain systems and the depiction of their relief.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Chinese Term: 山志学
Translation: 对山系和对它们描述的研究。

Code:5945
English Term:orthopteran
Definition:A heterogeneous order of generalized insects with gradual metamorphosis, chewing mouthparts, and four wings.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Chinese Term: 直翅目昆虫
Translation: 昆虫的一种，它有翅膀，咀嚼的口器和平滑的身体。

Code:5949
English Term:osmosis
Definition:The passage of a solvent through a semipermeable membrane separating two solutions of different concentrations. A semipermeable membrane is one through which the molecules of a solvent can pass but the molecules of most solutes cannot. There is a thermodynamic tendency for solutions separated by such a membrane to become equal in concentration, the water (or other solvent) flowing from the weaker to the stronger solution. Osmosis will stop when the two solutions reach equal concentration, and can also be stopped by applying a pressure to the liquid on the stronger-solution side of the membrane. The pressure required to stop the flow from a pure solvent into a solution is a characteristic of the solution, and is called the osmotic pressure. Osmotic pressure depends only on the concentration of particles in the solution, not on their nature.&#10;(Source: DICCHE)
Chinese Term: 渗透
Translation: 指溶剂通过一种半透膜。溶剂分子可能穿过这种半透膜，但是多数溶质分子不能通过。经半透膜分离的溶剂的热力学倾向变得相对集中，从微弱的水（或其它溶剂）流动到更强的溶剂。渗透作用将逐渐停止，直到二种溶剂达到相等的集中，并且可能通过施加压力于膜上达到液体中溶剂的不平衡。渗透压仅仅取决于溶液中粒子的浓度，而不是它们的特性。

Code:14955
English Term:outer space (allocation plan)
Definition:Area out of closed settlements or building.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 外太空（安置计划）
Translation: 在闭合空间外的区域。

Code:13613
English Term:oven
Definition:An enclosed heated compartment usually lined with a refractory material used for drying substances, firing ceramics, heat-treating, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 烤箱
Translation: 隔间用于干燥物质。

Code:5956
English Term:overburden
Definition:The material such as soil and rock lying above a mineral deposit that must be removed in order to work the deposit.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Chinese Term: 过载
Translation: 土壤和岩石堆积在矿床上，必须被移除，矿床才能继续开采。

Code:5957
English Term:overcrowding
Chinese Term: 过度拥挤
Definition:An excess of people gathered together in a confined space.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Translation: 过多的人聚集在一个封闭的空间。

Code:5958
English Term:overexploitation
Chinese Term: 过度开采
Definition:The use of raw materials excessively without considering the long-term ecological impacts of such use.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Translation: 开采原材料过度。

Code:5959
English Term:overfertilisation
Chinese Term: 过度施肥
Definition:Putting too much fertilizer on land; the runoff from overfertilisation can cause water pollution.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation: 施入过多肥料，可能会导致水的污染。

Code:5960
English Term:overfishing
Chinese Term: 过度捕捞
Definition:Taking out of the sea more than natural population growth can sustain. Overfishing has a number of causes, the most ruthless being "chronic over capacity" of modern fishing fleets to effectively take far more fish than can be replaced.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Translation: 过度捕捞鱼类，现代捕鱼船队是过度捕捞的工具。

Code:13570
English Term:overflow (outlet)
Chinese Term: 溢出（出口）
Definition:Any device or structure that conducts excess water or sewage from a conduit or container.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 过量的水或污水从输送管道或容器流出。

Code:5962
English Term:overgrazing
Chinese Term: 过度放牧
Definition:Intensive grazing by animals, for example cattle, sheep or goats, on an area of pasture. It has become a serious threat to the world's rangelands and grasslands. Several factors have led to overgrazing, which leads to the soil being degraded and becoming liable to erosion by wind and rain, and even to desertification. The main pressures leading to widespread overgrazing have been the need to increase the size and numbers of herds to produce more food for an increasing human population, and the transformation of traditional pasture land into plantations to grow cash crops. Throughout the dry tropics, where traditionally herds ranged over vast areas, intensive livestock-rearing schemes have taken over, mostly to provide meat for the export market. Well-digging operations have also led to heavy concentrations of animals in small areas.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Translation: 在牧场地区，由于动物例如牛、绵羊或山羊密集吃草造成。它成为对世界牧场和草原的一个严重威胁。几个因素导致了过度放牧，导致土壤退化，被风雨侵蚀，甚至沙漠化。导致普遍过度放牧的主要压力是需要增加牧群的大小和数量，生产更多食物以应对增长的人口，以及传统牧场的变革，如引入种植园种植商品作物。牧群传统上分布在广大的区域，密集的家畜驯养计划，为出口市场提供肉类。

Code:5963
English Term:overhead power line
Chinese Term: 架空电力线路
Definition:Suspended cables by which electrical power is distributed throughout a country.&#10;(Source: UVAROVa)
Translation: 电能被传输的缆绳。

Code:5965
English Term:overpopulation
Chinese Term: 人口过剩
Definition:A population density that exceeds the capacity of the environment to supply the health requirements of the individual organism.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation: 超出环境能力的人口密度。

Code:5967
English Term:overturn (limnology)
Chinese Term: 翻转（湖沼学）
Definition:The circulation, especially in the fall and spring, of the layers of water in a lake or sea, whereby surface water sinks and mixes with bottom water; it is caused by changes in density differences due to changes in temperature, and is especially common wherever lakes are icebound in winter.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation: 循环，特别是在秋天和春天，水层中的水面与底层水下沉混合；由于密度区别上的变化造成温度上的变化。这种循环是非常普通的，无论是冬天还是冰封。

Code:5968
English Term:overwintering
Chinese Term: 越冬
Definition:To spend winter in a particular place.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 在一个特殊地方度过冬天。

Code:10444
English Term:ovine
Chinese Term: 绵羊
Definition:Horned ruminant mammals raised in many breeds for wool, edible flesh, or skin.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Translation: 哺乳动物的一个品种，其羊毛、食用肉、皮可利用。

Code:5971
English Term:ownership
Chinese Term: 所有制
Definition:Collection of rights to use and enjoy property, including right to transmit it to others. The complete dominion, title, or proprietary right in a thing or claim.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Translation: 使用权，包括对财产的使用和传递给他人。

Code:5972
English Term:oxidation
Chinese Term: 氧化
Definition:A chemical reaction that increases the oxygen content of a compound.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 增加化合物中氧含量的一个化学反应。

Code:5976
English Term:oxidation-reduction
Chinese Term: 氧化还原
Definition:An oxidizing chemical change, where an element's positive valence is increased (electron loss), accompanied by a simultaneous reduction of an associated element (electron gain).&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 氧化的化学变化，元素的正化学价增加（电子损失），伴随着一个伴生的元素（电子获取）的减少。

Code:5978
English Term:oxide
Chinese Term: 氧化物
Definition:Binary chemical compound in which oxygen is combined with a metal or nonmetal.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 二元化合物与氧结合的金属或非金属元素。

Code:11787
English Term:oxidisable material
Chinese Term: 可氧化的材料
Definition:Substance that can undergo a chemical reaction with oxygen.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Translation: 可与氧进行化学反应的物质。

Code:5980
English Term:oxidising agent
Chinese Term: 氧化剂
Definition:Compound that gives up oxygen easily, removes hydrogen from another compound, or attracts negative electrons.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 氧化合物，移除从另一个氢原子吸引得到的电子。

Code:5982
English Term:oxygen
Chinese Term: 氧气
Definition:A gaseous chemical element; an essential element in cellular respiration and in combustion processes; the most abundant element in the earth's crust and about 20% of the air by volume.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 一种气态化学元素，在细胞呼吸和燃烧过程中最基本的和最丰富的元素，在地壳中占20%的空气量。

Code:5986
English Term:oxygen content
Chinese Term: 氧含量
Definition:Amount of oxygen contained in a solution.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Translation: 氧气的相对含量。

Code:5987
English Term:oxygen deficiency
Chinese Term: 缺氧
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:5983
English Term:oxygenation
Chinese Term:氧化
Definition:Treating with oxygen.&#10;(Source: MGHa)
Translation: 氧气处理。

Code:10753
English Term:oyster farming
Chinese Term: 牡蛎养殖
Definition:There are two types of oyster farming: suspension culture, in which oysters are grown off bottom, in floating trays, is a labor-intensive form of cultivation that requires continuous tending and cleaning of both gear and shellfish, and bottom culture, which is similar to conventional crop farming on land; it involves selecting areas of the sea floor that provide a natural food supply, necessary currents, minimum exposure to predators, and proper temperature and then "seeding" the bottom with shellfish stock that are left to grow to market size. Then they are harvested with a bottom drag from a boat. Both suspension culture and bottom culture depend on natural food supplies for growing the shellfish being raised.&#10;(Source: MSTF)
Translation: 牡蛎养殖有二种方法：悬浮培养，牡蛎被养殖在浮动的托盘上，这种养殖方式所需的工作量很大，因为需要经常对养殖用具和贝类进行清洗，包括托盘底部的培养，类似于传统的土地耕种方式。这种方法养殖牡蛎必须选择营养丰富的海域，必要的流水，防止食肉动物的侵袭，适当的温度，然后让小牡蛎附着在托盘上逐渐长大到可以上市的大小。可以用底部带拖网的船来收获牡蛎。悬挂培养和底部培养方式都依赖于海水中的天然营养，这种营养对贝类的生长是必须的。

Code:5991
English Term:ozone
Chinese Term: 臭氧
Definition:An allotropic form of oxygen containing three atoms in the molecule. It is a bluish gas, very active chemically, and a powerful oxidizing agent. Ozone is formed when oxygen or air is subjected to a silent electric discharge. It occurs in ordinary air in very small amounts only.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Translation: 包含三个原子的氧气分子。它是蓝色的气体，是活性很强的氧化剂。当氧气或空气被放电时，可产生臭氧。它只是非常少量的存在于普通空气中。

Code:5992
English Term:ozone depletion potential
Definition:A factor that reflects the ozone depletion potential of a substance, on a mass per kilogram basis, as compared to chlorofluorocarbon-Code:11 (CFC-Code:11). Such factor shall be based upon the substance's atmospheric life time, the molecular weight of bromine and chlorine, and the substance's ability to be photolytically disassociated, and upon other factors determined to be an accurate measure of relative ozone depletion potential.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Chinese Term: 臭氧消耗的潜力
Translation: 反映臭氧消耗潜力的某种因素，包括每公斤气体的臭氧含量，与氟氯化碳码：11比较（氟氯化碳代码：11）。这些因素将会对大气的寿命产生影响，包括溴和氯分子的重量。需要确定是否有其它因素能相对准确地测量臭氧消耗潜能值。

Code:5993
English Term:ozone layer
Chinese Term: 臭氧层
Definition:The general stratum of the upper atmosphere in which there is an appreciable ozone concentration and in which ozone plays an important part in the radiative balance of the atmosphere.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 在大气层的上层，臭氧浓度明显增强，其中臭氧对于保证大气辐射的平衡起到了重要的作用。

Code:5994
English Term:ozone layer depletion
Chinese Term:臭氧层损耗
Definition:The fragile shield of ozone is been damaged by chemicals released on earth. The main chemicals that are depleting stratospheric ozone are chlorofluorocarbons which are used in refrigerators, aerosols, and as cleaners in many industries, and halons, which are used in fire extinguishers. The damage is caused when these chemicals release highly reactive forms of chlorine and bromine. Over the past 30 years ozone levels over parts of Antarctica have dropped by almost 40% during some months and a "hole" in ozone concentrations is clearly visible in satellite observations.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Translation: 脆弱的臭氧保护层被地球上释放的化学物质所破坏。破坏大气层臭氧的主要化学物质是在冰箱和气雾剂中使用的氯氟烃，包括清洁行业，以及使用灭火器。这些化学物质释放的氯和溴在高活性状态下，会对臭氧造成损害。在过去30年里，南极地区的臭氧水平已经下降了近40％，在某几个月甚至会出现卫星可观测到的“臭氧空洞”。

Code:5995
English Term:ozonisation
Chinese Term: 修补臭氧
Definition:The process of treating, impregnating or combining with ozone.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 修补臭氧层。

Code:5999
English Term:packaging
Chinese Term: 包装材料
Definition: All products made of any materials of any nature to be used for the containment, protection, handling, delivery and presentation of goods, from raw materials to processed goods, from the producer to the user or the consumer.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Translation: 所有为物品的保护、处理、交付和介绍制成的产品，用任何自然材料或从原材料处理得到的物品，其流通过程是从生产商到用户或消费者。

Code:6001
English Term:packaging waste
Chinese Term: 包装废料
Definition:Waste comprised of materials, or items, used to protect, contain, or transport a commodity or product and usually considered a type of consumer waste.&#10;(Source: PGE)
Translation: 废弃的材料，或由它们组成的物品，可以用来保护运输的商品或产品，通常被认为是一种消费者的浪费。

Code:12528
English Term:packing industry
Chinese Term: 肉品加工业
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:6007
English Term:paint
Chinese Term: 涂料
Definition:A mixture of pigment and a vehicle, such as oil or water, that together form a liquid or paste that can be applied to a surface to provide an adherent coating that imparts colour to and often protects the surface.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 颜料和水的混合物，例如油或水，一起形成液体或黏贴，可以被用于涂抹物体表面以提供依附涂层和上色，并且经常用于保护物体表面。


Code:13562
English Term:paint room
Chinese Term: 画室
Definition: A portion of space within a commercial establishment that is used for applying coloring substances to certain products or materials, providing a decorative or protective coating.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 为在部分空间应用着色物质而使用某些产品或材料，提供装饰或保护层的商业机构。

Code:6012
English Term:paint shop
Chinese Term: 油漆行
Definition:A shop where paint and related items are sold.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Translation: 出售油漆和相关物品的商店。

Code:6009
English Term:painting business
Chinese Term: 绘画事务
Definition:A commercial service through which paint, a decorative or protective coating product, or similar products are applied to the interiors and exteriors of buildings and other surfaces.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 将商业服务、装饰漆或防护涂料产品，或类似的产品应用于产品、建筑和其它表面。

Code:12045
English Term:palaeoclimatology
Chinese Term: 古气候学
Definition:The study of paleoclimates throughout geologic time, and of the causes of their variations, on either a local or a worldwide basis. It involves the interpretation of glacial deposits, fossils and sedimentologic and other types of data.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation: 地质气候的研究，根据一个地方或全世界的数据，研究在整个地质时期它们变异的起因。它对冰河形成、化石和其它类型的问题给出解释。

Code:10135
English Term:palaeoecology
Chinese Term: 古生态学
Definition:The application of ecological concepts to fossil and sedimentary evidence to study the interactions of Earth surface, atmosphere, and biosphere in former times.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation: 应用生态化石和沉积的证据来研究地球表面之间的相互作用。

Code:6013
English Term:palaeontology
Chinese Term: 古生物学
Definition:The study of life in past geologic time, based on fossil plants and animals and including phylogeny, their relationship to existing plants, animals, and environments, and the chronology of the Earth's history.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation: 地质时期动植物的化石，它们之间的关系对现有的植物、动物和环境、地球历史有参考价值。

Code:6023
English Term:paper
Chinese Term: 纸
Definition:Felted or matted sheets of cellulose fibers, formed on a fine-wire screen from a dilute water suspension, and bonded together as the water is removed and the sheet is dried.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 一种纤维素纤维，由稀水悬浮液在细金属丝上形成，脱水后一起被表面干燥。

Code:6026
English Term:paper industry
Chinese Term: 造纸业
Definition:Industrial production of paper: pulp is produced by mechanically or chemically processing wood or other vegetative materials to extract usable cellulosic fibers as an aqueous slurry. The pulp slurry may be used directly in paper making or it may be shipped elsewhere for processing into paper products. The fundamental industrial operations are divided into two major categories: pulp mill and paper mill. The pulp mill operation includes wood preparation, pulping, deinking, pulp washing, screening and thickening, and bleaching. The paper mill operations include stock preparation, paper machine operation and finishing.&#10;(Source: PZ)
Translation: 工业生产的纸：浆是由机械或化学处理木材或其它植物原料提取得到，使用纤维素纤维作为浆。可以直接应用于浆纸制作或可进行纸产品加工的地方。作为基础性工业，它分为两大类：纸浆厂和造纸厂。在纸浆厂的操作包括木头制备、蒸煮、废纸、浆料洗涤、筛选和增厚、漂白。造纸厂的业务包括制备、造纸设备的操作和管理。

Code:6033
English Term:parameter
Chinese Term: 参数
Definition:1) A quantity in an equation which must be specified beside the independent variables to obtain the solution for the dependent variables. &#10;2) A quantity which is constant under a given set of conditions, but may be different under other conditions.&#10;(Source: LEE /  MGH)
Translation:1）除了独立变量旁的从属变量之外，方程中必须指定其数量。2）数量在一定条件下市一个常量，但在其它条件下有可能发生变化。

Code:6035
English Term:parasite
Chinese Term: 寄生虫
Definition:Organism which lives and obtains food at the expense of another organism, the host.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation: 通过消耗其它生物体来获得食物的一种生物。

Code:6038
English Term:parasitology
Chinese Term: 寄生虫学
Definition:A branch of biology which deals with those organisms, plant or animal, which have become dependent on other living creatures.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 生物学的一个分支，涉及到微生物、植物或动物。

Code:6047
English Term:parking provision
Chinese Term: 停车规定
Definition:Area where a vehicle can be left for a period of time. &#10;(Source: CAMBa)
Translation: 汽车可以停泊的地方。

Code:6048
English Term:Parliament
Chinese Term: 议会
Definition:An assembly of elected representatives, typically controlled by a political party and constituting the legislative and, in some cases, the executive power of a state.&#10;(Source: CIV / APS)
Translation: 当选代表的集合，典型的做法是通过政党立法来实现对政权的控制，并且在某些情况下，获得执行权。

Code:10999
English Term:parliamentary debate
Chinese Term: 议会辩论
Definition:Formal discussion or dispute on a particular matter among the members of the parliament.&#10;(Source: ZINZANa)
Translation: 议会成员之间的正式讨论和争论。

Code:13021
English Term:parliamentary report
Chinese Term: 议会报告
Definition:A written account describing in detail observations or the results of an inquiry into an event or situation and presented to an official, deliberative body with legislative powers.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 详细地描述了观查结果、事件或情况的调查，并提交给官方的、政治协商会议或立法机构。

Code:1385
English Term:partially halogenated chlorofluorohydrocarbon
Chinese Term: 部分卤代
Definition:Hydrocarbons whose hydrogen atoms have been partially substituted with chlorine and fluorine. They are used in refrigeration, air conditioning, packaging, insulation, or as solvents and aerosol propellants. Because they are not destroyed in the lower atmosphere they drift into the upper atmosphere where their chlorine components destroy ozone.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation: 碳氢化合物的氢原子已经部分取代氯氟。它们被用于制冷、空调、包装、保温、或溶剂和气溶胶推进剂。因为当它们漂流到大气时，不会对上部大气圈的臭氧造成破坏。

Code:6051
English Term:participation
Chinese Term: 参与
Definition:The act of sharing or taking part in a civic, community or public action.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 在民事活动中的行动分享或参与，社区或公众行动。

Code:6052
English Term:particle
Chinese Term: 微粒子
Definition:1) Any very small part of matter, such as a molecule, atom, or electron. &#10;2) Any relatively small subdivision of matter, ranging in diameter from a few angstroms to a few millimeters.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:1）任何很小的物质，如一个分子、原子、或电子。2）有相对较小的部分，单位从几个埃到毫米。

Code:6055
English Term:particle separator
Chinese Term: 分离器
Definition:A device for segregation of solid particles by size range, as a screening.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 一种对所含固体颗粒进行的分离的装置，并可设置筛选尺寸的范围。

Code:6059
English Term:passenger transport
Chinese Term: 客运
Definition:The conveyance of people over land, water or through air by automobile, bus, train, airplane or some other means of travel.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 运输人的汽车、公共汽车、火车、飞机或其它的旅行方式。

Code:6062
English Term:paste-like waste
Chinese Term: 浆状废物
Definition:Waste deriving from various activities having a pasty consistency.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation: 来源于各种活动的废料，且具有浆状属性。

Code:6061
English Term:pasture
Chinese Term: 牧场
Definition:Land covered with grass or herbage and grazed by or suitable for grazing by livestock.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 家畜用草和吃草，或适用于吃草的土地。&#10;(来源： CED)

Code:12977
English Term:patent
Chinese Term: 专利
Definition:A grant of right to exclude others from making, using or selling one's invention and includes right to license others to make, use or sell it.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Translation: 一种排它性的权利，禁止别人制造、使用或出售某人的发明，包括将该发明授权给其它人或单位使用。

Code:10905
English Term:path
Chinese Term: 小路
Definition:A route or track between one place to another.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Translation: 从一个地方到另一个地方的路或轨道。

Code:6063
English Term:pathogen
Chinese Term:病菌
Definition:Any disease-producing agent or microorganism.
Translation: 任何disease-producing 致病媒介或微生物

Code:6064
English Term:pathogenic organism
Chinese Term: 致病生物
Definition:Agents producing or capable of producing disease.&#10;(Source: MGH)

Code:6065
English Term:pathologic effect
Chinese Term: 病理效应

Code:6066
English Term:pathology
Chinese Term: 病理
Definition:The branch of medicine concerned with the causes, origin, and nature of disease, including the changes occurring as a result of disease.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 关于医药、疾病性质的起源，包括变化的疾病。

Code:11069
English Term:patrimonial management
Chinese Term: 世袭管理
Definition:A type of leadership and management style attempting to gain the loyalty and support of subordinates by excessively providing for their needs and interests.
Translation: 一种领导和管理风格类型，试图通过提供需求和利益获得下属的忠诚和支持。

Code:6068
English Term:pattern of urban growth
Chinese Term: 城市增长模式
Definition:The combination of acts, tendencies and other observable characteristics that demonstrates a municipal area's progress or state of development, including its population trends.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 一系列条例的组合，在这些条例的作用下城市区有了可见的改观，包括人口。

Code:14905
English Term:pattern recognition
Chinese Term: 模式识别
Definition:A remote sensing term referring to an automated process through which unidentified patterns can be classified into a limited number of discrete classes through comparison with other class-defining patterns or characteristics. Pattern recognition is an essential part of the classification of remotely sensed images and is used as an aid to image interpretation.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Translation: 遥感术语，指通过自动化的分析过程使不确定的模式可分为一类数量有限的离散类，并通过与其它模式类的定义或特征比较，识别该模式。模式识别是分类遥感图像中一个重要的组成部分，并能辅助图像解释。

Code:13244
English Term:pay policy
Chinese Term: 薪水政策
Definition:A course of action or procedure regarding compensation or recompensation for work done or services rendered.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 一系列的行动或过程来补偿所做的工作或服务。

Code:13305
English Term:peacekeeping
Chinese Term: 维护和平
Definition:The activities to prevent, contain, moderate and/or terminate the hostilities between or within States, through the medium of an impartial third party intervention, organised and directed internationally. This intervention is conducted using military forces, police and civilians with the consent of the main belligerents, to complement the diplomatic conflict resolution process and, to restore and maintain peace.&#10;(Source: VCDS)
Translation: 使用军事力量、警察力量，在平民同意的情况下，通过外交手段使交战双方冲突消解的过程，以恢复和维持和平。

Code:6081
English Term:peat
Chinese Term: 泥煤
Definition:Unconsolidated soil material consisting largely of undecomposed or slightly decomposed organic matter accumulated under conditions of excessive moisture.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation: 土壤疏松且含有大量分解有机物质和过多的水分。

Code:6084
English Term:peat extraction
Chinese Term: 泥煤提取
Definition:Peat is obtained from peat bogs by cutting it from the earth; it is then formed into briquettes, which can be used as fuel. Peat may be found in layers several metres thick. In some countries peat-fired generating stations for electricity are in use. Peat is also used as a soil conditioner.&#10;(Source: PHC /  PARCOR)
Translation: 从泥炭地中提取泥炭，然后形成煤球，可作为燃料。泥炭层有数公尺厚。在一些国家电站作为发电能源投入使用。泥炭也被用作土壤保护素。

Code:10785
English Term:pedagogy
Chinese Term: 教育学
Definition:The principles, practice, or profession of teaching.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:教学实践和职业的原则。

Code:6092
English Term:pedestrian zone
Chinese Term: 行人专用区
Definition:Area where vehicles are not allowed.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Translation: 汽车不允许进入的区域。

Code:6094
English Term:pedosphere
Chinese Term: 土壤圈
Definition:That shell or layer of the Earth in which soil-forming processes occur.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation: 土壤形成的地壳或层数。

Code:13937
English Term:penal sanction
Chinese Term: 刑事制裁
Definition:Punishment for the commission of a specific crime, such as fines, restitution, probation and imprisonment.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation: 罚款、归还、缓刑和监禁等犯罪处罚。

Code:6103
English Term:penalty
Chinese Term: 惩罚
Definition:1) A punishment for a crime. 2) A sum specified in a contract as payable on its breach but not constituting a genuine estimate of the likely loss.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Translation:1）用以惩罚犯罪。2）为其违约行为支付规定的金额，但不构成真正的损失。

Code:6102
English Term:penalty for environmental damage
Chinese Term:对环境破坏的惩罚
Definition:Punishment, varying from fines to withdrawal of government funds to economic sanctions, which is imposed for the harm or injury done to natural resources.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 惩罚，包括罚款、收回政府资助等形式，通常是由于对自然资源造成破坏而实施的。

Code:6106
English Term:pentachlorophenol
Chinese Term: 五氯苯酚
Definition:One of the universally toxic phenolic compounds, is a general purpose agent that is used as a fungicide, herbicide and molluscicide, particularly in Egypt where it is used to control snails that carry the larval human blood flukes that cause schistosomiasis. It is also used in wood preservatives and is very poisonous.&#10;(Source: WRIGHT)
Translation: 一种普遍的毒性酚类化合物、通常作为一种杀菌剂和除草剂，特别是在埃及，它被用来控制蜗牛携带的血吸虫所造成的血吸虫病传播。它也被用于木材防腐剂，它的毒性很强。

Code:6107
English Term:per capita data
Definition:No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 单位人口资料

Code:6109
English Term:perchloroethylene
Chinese Term:全氯乙烯
Definition:Stable, colorless liquid, nonflammable and nonexplosive, with low toxicity; used as a dry-cleaning and industrial solvent, in pharmaceuticals and medicines, and for metal cleaning.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 不稳定、无色液体和低毒性，可作为干洗和工业溶剂，也用于医药、金属的清洗。

Code:6111
English Term:percolating water
Chinese Term: 渗滤水
Definition:Subsurface water that passes, under the force of gravity, through rocks or soil along the line of least resistance.&#10;(Source: WWC)
Translation: 在重力下穿过岩石或土壤沿着最简便的方法渗透的表层下水。

Code:10214
English Term:peripheral park area
Chinese Term: 周边公园区域
Definition:A zone of the park where scientific research is allowed. Beyond this there is a buffer zone which protects the whole reserve from agricultural, industrial and urban development.&#10;(Source: WRIGHTa)
Translation: 公园区域，允许进行科学研究。作为城市缓冲区，可以保护农业、工业和城市的发展。

Code:6115
English Term:periphyton
Chinese Term: 水生附着生物
Definition:A plant or animal organism which is attached or clings to surfaces of leaves or stems of rooted plants above the bottom stratum.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 一种植物或动物附着于茎叶和根植物的表面。

Code:11309
English Term:periurban space
Chinese Term: 城郊空间
Definition:Any expanse of land or region located on the outskirts of a city or town.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 位于市郊的城市或小镇，有着一望无垠的土地。

Code:6118
English Term:permafrost ecosystem
Chinese Term: 冻土生态系统
Definition:The interacting system of the biological communities and their nonliving environmental surroundings in a climatic region where the subsoil is perennially frozen.&#10;(Source: TOE / DOE)
Translation: 生物社区与它们周围的无生命环境互动的系统，底部土壤四季不断结冰的气候区域。

Code:6120
English Term:permeability
Chinese Term: 渗透性
Definition:The ability of a membrane or other material to permit a substance to pass through it.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 膜或其它材料允许物质穿过它的能力。

Code:6123
English Term:permissible exposure limit
Chinese Term: 允许暴露极限
Definition:An exposure limit that is set for exposure to an hazardous substance or harmful agent and enforced by OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Act) as a legal standard. It is based on time-weighted average concentrations for a normal 8-hour work day and 40 hour work week.&#10;(Source: CONFER)
Translation: 这是由职业健康安全局（管理职业安全和健康行为）对曝光限制和有害物质所制定的法定标准。它是基于工作时间强度，如40小时/周，8个小时/天的工作时间。

Code:6124
English Term:permission
Chinese Term: 允许
Definition:The license, formal consent or authorization to act on some matter, frequently validating the action as lawful or procedurally correct.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation: 授权，对某些问题正式同意或授权法案，并通过多次验证来确定决定是否正确。

Code:6128
English Term:peroxyacetylnitrate
Definition:A pollutant created by the action of sunlight on hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides in the air. An ingredient of smog.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Chinese Term: 过氧乙醯硝酸
Translation: 由于光作用造成碳氢化合物和氧化氮等污染物进入空气中，具有烟雾成份。

Code:14849
English Term:persistant organic pollutant
Chinese Term: 持久性有机污染物
Definition:Organic pollutants that do not break down chemically and remain in the environment. Pollutants with higher persistence may produce more harmful environmental effects.&#10;(Source: LANDYa)
Translation: 在环境中不能降解且保持原状的有机污染物。更强的持久性污染物也许会导致更有害的环境效果。

Code:6129
English Term:persistence
Chinese Term: 持久性
Definition:The capacity of a substance to remain chemically stable. This is an important factor in estimating the environmental effects of substances discharged into the environment. Certain toxic substances (e.g., cyanides) have a low persistence, whereas other less immediately toxic substances (e.g., many organochlorines) have a high persistence and may therefore produce more serious effects.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation: 物质的一种能力，保持化学稳定性。这种物质是影响环境评估的一个重要因素。某些有毒物质（如氰化物）有较弱的持久性，而其它不是立即有毒的物质（如很多有机氯）有很强的持久性，并可能因此产生更严重的影响。

Code:6131
English Term:persistence of pesticides
Chinese Term: 有机污染物的持久性
Definition:The ability of a chemical to retain its molecular integrity and hence its physical, chemical, and functional characteristics in the environment through which such a chemical may be transported and distributed for a considerable period of time.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation: 具备这种能力的化学物质，能保持其分子完整性的物理、化学和功能特点。在环境中，这样的化学物质可能被保持一段时间。

Code:6133
English Term:personal responsibility
Chinese Term: 个人责任

Code:6138
English Term:pest
Definition:Any organism that damages crops, injures or irritates livestock or man, or reduces the fertility of land.&#10;(Source: CED)
Chinese Term: 害虫
Translation: 损坏庄稼，伤害或者激怒家畜或人的所有生物体，或者减少土地的生产力。

Code:6139
English Term:pest control
Chinese Term: 害虫防治
Definition:Keeping down the number of pests by killing them or preventing them from attacking.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation: 通过杀死害虫来降低它们的数量，从而防止它们损害农作物。

Code:6149
English Term:pest infestation
Chinese Term: 害虫感染
Definition:1) The occurrence of one or more pest species in an area or location where their numbers and impact are currently or potentially at intolerable levels. &#10;2) A sudden increase in destructiveness or population numbers of a pest species in a given area.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Translation: 1）在一个或多个位置发现一个或多个害虫种类，它们的数量正在或可能达到无法忍受的水平。2）在某个地区，破坏性害虫种类的数量突然增加。

Code:6140
English Term:pesticide
Chinese Term: 杀虫剂
Definition:A general term for chemical agents that are used in order to kill unwanted plants, animals pests or disease-causing fungi, and embracing insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, nematicides, etc. Some pesticides have had widespread disruptive effects among non-target species.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation: 用于除掉不需要的植物、动物或疾病导致的真菌的化学药剂、除草药、杀真菌剂、杀线虫剂等。有些杀虫剂具有在非目标种类中制造混乱的作用。

Code:6143
English Term:pesticide control standard
Chinese Term: 杀虫剂控制标准
Definition:A norm or measure applicable in legal cases pertaining to the production, dissemination or use of substances designed to mitigate or eliminate insects or small animals that harm vegetation.&#10;(Source: BLD / TOE)
Translation: 一类产品的生产、普及和使用规范和测量标准，这类产品用于在法定条件下消灭破坏农作物的小型动物。

Code:6144
English Term:pesticide pathway
Chinese Term: 农药通路
Definition:The specific or known route or vector of any chemical substance released into the environment to prevent, destroy or mitigate any pest that is directly or indirectly detrimental to harvest crops and other human interests.&#10;(Source: TOE / FAI / DOE)
Translation: 所有化学物质具体的或已知的路线，或通过传染媒介释放入环境，用来防止和缓和对收获庄稼直接或间接地有害的昆虫。

Code:6152
English Term: pet
Chinese Term: 宠物
Definition:An animal which is kept in the home as a companion and treated affectionately.&#10;(Source: CAMB)
Translation: 养在家里作为伴侣的动物。

Code:7217
English Term:petition right
Chinese Term: 请愿权利
Definition:A legal guarantee or just claim enabling a citizen or employee to compose and submit a formal written request to an authority asking for some benefit or favor or for intervention and redress of some wrong.&#10;(Source: BLD / RHW)
Translation: 从法律上保证请愿要求，允许公民提交一份正式的书面请求，或权威的征求意见，或支持、干预和纠正一些错误。

Code:13196
English Term:petrochemical
Chinese Term: 石油化学产品
Definition:Chemicals manufactured from the products of oil refineries, based largely on ethylene, propylene and butylene produced in the cracking of petrol fractions.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation: 从炼油厂产品制造得到的化学制品，主要根据乙烯、丙烯和丁烯通过裂化生产得到的汽油分类。

Code:6154
English Term:petrochemical industry
Chinese Term: 石化工业
Definition:The production of materials derived from petroleum or natural gas.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 由石油和天然气生产出的产品。

Code:6156
English Term:petrol
Chinese Term: 汽油
Definition:A fuel for internal combustion engines consisting essentially of volatile flammable liquid hydrocarbons; derived from crude petroleum by processes such as distillation reforming, polymerization, catalytic cracking, and alkilation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 燃料内燃机中包含的挥发性可燃液体碳氢化合物，来源于原油，通过蒸馏法、聚合、催化裂化得到。

Code:6161
English Term:petroleum
Chinese Term: 石油
Definition:A comparatively volatile liquid bitumen composed principally of hydrocarbon, with traces of sulphur, nitrogen or oxygen compounds; can be removed from the earth in a liquid state.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 具有相当挥发性的液体，主要成分包括：碳氢化合物、硫磺、氮气或氧化合物，能以液态的形式从土壤中抽取。

Code:6162
English Term:petroleum consumption
Chinese Term: 石油消费
Definition:Petroleum belongs to non-renewable energy sources; it is a complex substance derived from the carbonized remains of trees, ferns, mosses, and other types of vegetable matter. The principal chemical constituents of oil are carbon, hydrogen, and sulphur. The various fuels made from crude oil are jet fuel, gasoline, kerosine, diesel fuel, and heavy fuel oils. Major oil consumption is in the following areas: transportation, residential-commercial, industrial and for generating electric power.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Translation: 石油属于非可再生能源，它是一种复杂的物质，来源于炭化后的树木、蕨类、藓类和其它类型的蔬菜。主要化学成分是碳、氢、油和硫磺。石油可以被提炼成各种燃料：原油、汽油、喷气燃料、柴油、重燃料油。主要的石油消费是在以下几个方面：运输工业和发电。

Code:6163
English Term:petroleum geology
Chinese Term: 石油地质学
Definition:The branch of economic geology that relates to the origin, migration and accumulation of oil and gas, and to the discovery of commercial deposits. Its practice involves the application of geochemistry, geophysics, paleontology, structural geology and stratigraphy to the problems of finding hydrocarbons.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation: 与石油、煤、天然气的起源、迁移和储积，地质分布和商业发现有关的学科。它的实践包括地球化学、地球物理、古生物学、结构地质和地层学的应用，以及发现碳氢化合物的问题。

Code:6164
English Term:petroleum industry
Chinese Term: 石油工业
Definition:Manufacturing industry utilizing complex combination of interdependent operations engaged in the storage and transportation, separation of crude molecular constituents, molecular cracking, molecular rebuilding, and solvent finishing to produce petrochemical products.&#10;(Source: PZ)
Translation: 利用复杂的制造业合作，从事仓储、运输、分离原油，包括组成分子、分子开裂、分子重建、溶剂，最终生产石油化工产品。

Code:6176
English Term:phanerogam
Chinese Term: 有花植物
Definition:Plants that produce seeds. The group comprises the Gymnospermae and the Angiospermae.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation: 植物产生种子。这类植物包括裸子植物门和被子植物门。

Code:6177
English Term:pharmaceutical industry
Chinese Term: 制药行业
Definition:Concerted activity concerned with manufacturing pharmaceutical goods.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 与医药制造相关的行业。

Code:6179
English Term:pharmaceutical waste
Chinese Term: 制药废料
Definition:Discarded medicinal drugs and related products from pharmacies, hospitals, clinics, pharmaceutical manufacturers, etc.&#10;(Source: APD / EPW)
Translation: 由药店、医院、诊所、药品制造商产生的医用废弃物和相关产品废料等。

Code:6180
English Term:pharmacokinetics
Chinese Term: 药物动力学
Definition:The study of the rates of absorption, tissue distribution, biotransformation, and excretion.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Translation: 关于药物的吸收速率、分布、组织和分泌的研究。

Code:6181
English Term:pharmacology
Chinese Term: 药理学
Definition:The science dealing with the nature and properties of drugs, particularly their actions.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:处理药物特性的科学，尤其是处理活动。

Code:6183
English Term:phenol
Chinese Term: 苯酚
Definition:A white crystalline soluble poisonous acidic derivative of benzene, used as an antiseptic and disinfectant and in the manufacture of resins, nylon, dyes, explosives and pharmaceuticals.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 一种白色结晶、可溶性的有毒酸衍生物的苯，用作防腐剂和消毒剂及生产树脂、尼龙、染料、炸药和药品。

Code:6184
English Term:pheromone
Chinese Term: 信息素
Definition:Any substance secreted by an animal which influences the behaviour of other individuals of the same species.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 任何物质，隐藏在动物的行为中，并对其它物种产生影响。

Code:6187
English Term:philosophy
Chinese Term: 哲学
Definition:The academic discipline concerned with making explicit the nature and significance of ordinary and scientific beliefs and investigating the intelligibility of concepts by means of rational argument concerning their presuppositions, implications, and interrelationships; in particular, the rational investigation of the nature and structure of reality (metaphysics), the resources and limits of knowledge (epistemology), the principles and import of moral judgment (ethics), and the relationship between language and reality (semantics).&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 一个学科，研究自然的性质和科学的信念及其普世意义，将调查结果作为理性的论据和前提，特别是对现实的性质和结构原理的调查（形而上学），资源和知识的限制（认识论），原则和道德判断（伦理），以及语言与现实（语义）。

Code:6189
English Term:phosphate
Chinese Term: 磷酸盐
Definition:1) Generic term for any compound containing a phosphate group.&#10; 2) Any salt or ester of any phosphoric acid, especially a salt of orthophosphoric acid.&#10;(Source: MGH /  CED)
Translation: 1）包含磷酸盐化合物的通用术语。2）任何磷酸的盐或酯，特别是酯类正磷酸。

Code:6190
English Term:phosphate removal
Chinese Term:磷去除
Definition:Replacement of phosphate in detergents by environmentally safer substances, such as zeolite. The substitute will not act as a nutrient, and so will not cause eutrophication as a result of the accelerated growth of plants and microorganisms if it is released into waterways.&#10;(Source: WRIGHTa)
Translation: 使用环境安全的物品更换磷酸盐的清洁剂，例如沸石。该替换不会作为营养物质，因此即使它被释放到水道，也不会造成河水富营养化，从而加速植物和微生物的生长。

Code:6192
English Term:phosphate substitute
Chinese Term: 磷酸替代
Definition:All substances that are able to substitute phosphate compounds in detergents; they must have the same chemical and physical properties and must be less polluting for the environment.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation: 所有能取代磷酸盐化合物的洗涤剂，它们必须有相同的物理和化学特性，必须减少污染和对环境的影响。

Code:11211
English Term:phosphatic fertiliser
Chinese Term:磷肥
Definition:Fertilizer compound or mixture containing available (soluble) phosphate; examples are phosphate rock (phosphorite), superphosphates or triple superphosphates, nitrophosphate, potassium phosphate, or N-P-K mixtures.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:包含可利用的（可溶解）磷酸盐的肥料化合物或混合物；例如磷酸盐岩（磷钙土），过磷酸钙或者三倍过磷酸钙、硝化磷酸盐、钾磷酸盐或者N-P-K混合物。

Code:6196
English Term:phosphorus
Chinese Term:磷
Definition:A nonmetallic element used to manufacture phosphoric acid, in phosphor bronzes, incendiaries, pyrotechnics, matches, and rat poisons; the white or yellow allotrope is a soft waxy solid, soluble in carbon disulfide, insoluble in water and alcohol, and is poisonous and self-igniting in air; the red allotrope is an amorphous powder, insoluble in all solvents and is nonpoisonous; the black allotrope comprises lustrous crystals similar to graphite, and is insoluble in most solvents.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:用于制造磷酸的非金属元素，在磷青铜、燃烧弹、烟火制造、比赛和鼠毒物中存在；呈白色或黄色（同素异构体），是一种软的、蜡状的固体，可溶解于二硫化碳，不能溶于水和酒精，有毒性，可在空气中自燃；红色同素异构体是一种无定形的粉末，不能溶于任何溶剂并且是无毒性的；黑同素异构体包括发光泽的水晶，与石墨相似，并且不能溶于大多数溶剂。

Code:6197
English Term:photochemical agent
Chinese Term: 光化学代理
Definition:Agents which trigger off photochemical reactions.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation: 代理，引发光化学反应。

Code:6198
English Term:photochemical effect
Chinese Term: 光化学效应
Definition:The result or consequence of a chemical reaction caused by light or ultraviolet radiation.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Translation: 产生紫外线的化学反应。

Code:6199
English Term:photochemical oxidant
Chinese Term: 光化学氧化剂
Definition:Any of the chemicals which enter into oxidation reactions in the presence of light or other radiant energy.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:任何能借助光或其它辐射能发生氧化反应的化学物质。

Code:11645
English Term:photochemical pollution
Chinese Term: 光化学污染
Definition:Air pollution containing ozone and other reactive chemical compounds formed by the action of sunlight on nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons, especially those in automobile exhaust.
Translation: 一种大气污染，使空气中的臭氧和其它化合物发生作用而形成的氮氧化物和碳氢化合物，尤其是在汽车尾气中。

Code:6200
English Term:photochemical product
Chinese Term: 光化学产物
Definition:Degradation products that are produced by the action of light radiation.&#10;(Source: FLGISAa)
Translation: 降解产物，由光源辐射作用产生。

Code:6201
English Term:photochemical reaction
Chinese Term: 光化学反应
Definition:Chemical reaction which is initiated by light of a specific wavelength. In an environmental context an example is the potential action of ultraviolet light on CFCs which may bring about the detrimental degradation of the ozone layer. Photochemical reactions initiate the process of photosynthesis in which plants convert carbon dioxide into sugars, which are incorporated into cell materials.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Translation: 该化学反应由一种特定波长的光产生。特定环境下的例子是紫外线照射可能导致含氯氟烃有损臭氧层退化。光化学反应在光合作用的过程中，使植物细胞转化成糖，而二氧化碳是输入细胞的材料。

Code:6202
English Term:photochemical smog
Chinese Term: 光化烟雾
Definition:A combination of fog and chemicals that come from automobile and factory emissions and is acted upon by the action of the sun. Nitrogen dioxide, in the presence of the sun and some hydrocarbons, is turned into nitric oxide and atomic oxygen. The atomic oxygen reacts with the oxygen molecules and other constituents of automobile exhaust fumes to form a variety of products including ozone. The ozone is harmful in itself and is also implicated in a highly complex series of continuing reactions. As long as there is ozone or nitrogen dioxide and sunlight present, other undesirable reactions will occur.
Translation: 结合雾的化学品。主要来自汽车、工厂排放的作用。二氧化氮在太阳作用下和一些碳氢化合物反应变成一氧化氮和原子氧。原子氧与氧分子和其它成分的汽车排放尾气反应形成了多元化的产品包括臭氧。臭氧是有害的。而反应本身也牵涉到一系列复杂的、持续的反应。只要有臭氧和二氧化氮及阳光，这种化学反应就会出现。

Code:11789
English Term:photodegradation
Chinese Term: 光降解
Definition:The capability of being decomposed by prolonged exposure to light.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Translation: 暴露在光线下从而被分解的能力。

Code:6204
English Term:photogrammetry
Chinese Term: 照相测量法
Definition:The process of making measurements from photographs, used especially in the construction of maps from aerial photographs and also in military intelligence, medical and industrial research, etc.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 测量的过程中，利用照片，尤其是从空中拍摄的照片和地图，在军事情报、医药和工业研究等。

Code:6205
English Term:photograph
Chinese Term: 照片
Definition:An image captured by a camera or some other device and reproduced as a picture, usually on a sensitized surface and formed by the chemical action of light or of radiant energy.&#10;(Source: MHD / RHW)
Translation: 由照相机或其它设备捕获的图像，并能被重新生成为图片。通常在一张具有活性化学成分的纸张表面，通过化学反应来成像

Code:13123
English Term:photography
Chinese Term: 摄影术
Definition:The process of forming visible images directly or indirectly by the action of light or other forms of radiation on sensitive surfaces.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:由光的活动或辐射在敏感物质表面直接或间接地形成可见图象的过程。

Code:6211
English Term:photosynthesis
Chinese Term: 光合作用
Definition:The process by which plants transform carbon dioxide and water into carbohydrates and other compounds, using energy from the sun captured by chlorophyll in the plant. Oxygen is a by-product of the process. Photosynthesis is the essence of all plant life (autotrophic production) and hence of all animal life (heterotrophic production) on the planet Earth. The rate of photosynthesis depends on climate, intensity and duration of sunlight, available leaf area, soil nutrient availability, temperature, carbon dioxide concentration, and soil moisture regimes.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Translation: 这个过程所产生的二氧化碳和水直接转化成碳水化合物和其它化合物，太阳能驱动光和作用。叶绿素氧是光和作用过程产生的一种副产品。光合作用的本质是一切植物生命（自养生产）的来源，因此地球上所有的动物都是异养生产。光合作用的速率取决于气候、阳关强度和持续时间、叶面积、土壤养分有效性、温度、二氧化碳浓度、土壤水分等因素。

Code:14636
English Term:pH-value
Chinese Term:氢离子浓度负对数值


Code:14853
English Term:physical alteration
Chinese Term: 物理变更
Definition:Any change in a body or substance that does not involve an alteration in its chemical composition.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Translation: 身体上的任何改变或物质变化，但并不包括水作为化学成分的变化。

Code:10039
English Term:physical chemistry
Chinese Term: 物理化学
Definition:A science dealing with the effects of physical phenomena on chemical properties.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Translation:研究物理现象的效果及化学性质的学科。

Code:6221
English Term:physical conditions
Chinese Term: 物理状态

Code:10166
English Term:physical environment
Chinese Term: 物理环境
Definition:The material surroundings of a system, process or organism.&#10;(Source: APD)
Translation: 系统、过程或生物体的周围物质。

Code:6222
English Term:physical geography
Chinese Term: 自然地理
Definition:The study of the spatial and temporal characteristics and relationships of all phenomena within the Earth's physical environment.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Translation: 研究时间和空间关系的特点，以及地球上一切现象的物理环境。

Code:10040
English Term:physical measurement of pollution
Chinese Term: 污染的物理测量
Definition:The quantitative determination of the presence, extent or type of pollutant substances in the environment using mechanical means, including optical, electrical, acoustical and thermodynamic techniques.&#10;(Source: APD / RHW)
Translation: 定量测定污染存在的程度和类型，污染物的测定中使用的机械方法包括：光学、电子学、声学和热力学的基本技术。

Code:6224
English Term:physical oceanography
Chinese Term: 物理海洋学
Definition:The study of the physical aspects of the ocean, the movements of the sea, and the variability of these factors in relationship to the atmosphere and the ocean bottom.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 从物理方面研究运动的大海，各种因素的变化，以及这些因素与大气和海洋底部的关系。

Code:6225
English Term:physical planning
Chinese Term: 实体规划
Definition:A form of urban land use planning which attempts to achieve an optimal spatial coordination of different human activities for the enhancement of the quality of life.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation: 一种形式的土地利用规划，借以达到最佳的、为提高生活质量的人类活动空间协调。。

Code:6226
English Term:physical pollutant
Chinese Term: 物理污染物
Definition:A pollutant characterized by its influence on environmental conditions caused by forces and operations of physics, such as noise, microwave radiation, vibration, etc.&#10;(Source: Landy)
Translation: 按照该物质对环境状况污染的特点来分类，例如噪声、微波辐射、振动等。

Code:6227
English Term:physical pollution
Chinese Term: 物理性污染
Definition:The introduction or presence of harmful substances or forces in the environment that cause damage to the environment and its processes due to their material actions, as through vibration, thermal alteration or electromagnetic radiation.&#10;(Source: TOE / APD / LES)
Translation: 由于材料的运动引入有害物质或对环境造成损害，如通过振动、热变更或电磁辐射等。

Code:6228
English Term:physical process
Chinese Term:物理过程
Definition:A continuous action or series of changes which alters the material form of matter.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:修改问题的物质形式变动的连续作用或系列。

Code:6229
English Term:physical property
Chinese Term:物理属性
Definition:Property of a compound that can change without involving a change in chemical composition.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:无需化学成分的变化就能改变的属性。

Code:6230
English Term:physical science
Chinese Term:自然科学
Definition:The sciences concerned with nonliving matter, energy, and the physical properties of the universe, such as physics, chemistry, astronomy, and geology.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 宇宙中与科学有关的事物、能源和物理性能，如物理、化学、天文学和地质学。

Code:12606
English Term:physical treatment
Chinese Term:物理处理
Definition:Processes that separate components of a waste stream or change the physical form of the waste without altering the chemical structure of the constituent materials. Physical treatment techniques are often used to separate the materials within the waste stream so that they can be reused or detoxified by chemical or biological treatment or destroyed by high-temperature incineration.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Translation:分离废料流中的各种成分或改变废料的物理形态，而不改变其化学结构组成。物理处理技术经常用来分离废料流，以便它们可以通过化学或生物或解毒疗法重用，或被高温焚烧销毁。

Code:11798
English Term:physicochemical analysis
Chinese Term: 物理化学分析
Definition:Analysis based on the physical changes associated with chemical reactions.&#10;(Source: UVAROVa)
Translation:根据物理变化分析联合化学反应。

Code:6233
English Term:physicochemical process
Chinese Term:物理化学过程
Definition:Processes involving changes in the physical properties and chemical structure of substances.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:变化过程中的物理性质和化学结构。

Code:6234
English Term:physicochemical purification
Chinese Term:物理化学提纯
Definition:Used to concentrate waste brines and to remove solid organics and ammonia from aqueous solutions. Physical treatment consists of reverse osmosis, dialysis, electrodialysis, evaporation, carbon, adsorption, ammonia stripping, filtration, sedimentation, and flocculation. Chemical treatment consists of ion exchange, neutralization, oxidation, reduction, precipitation, and calcination.
Translation:用来集中精力去除固体有机食品中的氨。物理处理方法包括反渗透、透析、电渗析、蒸发、二氧化碳、吸附、氨剥离、过滤、沉降、絮凝。化学处理方法包括离子交换、中和、氧化、还原、降水、灼烧。

Code:12605
English Term:physicochemical treatment
Chinese Term:物理化学的处理
Definition:Any processing of wastewater, toxic substances or other materials involving a combination of physical and chemical methods, such as physical processes including air-stripping or filtration and chemical processes including coagulation, chlorination or ozonation.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Translation:废水的处理、借助物理和化工方法的组合毒性物质或者其它材料，例如物理过程包括空气剥离或滤清，而化学过程包括凝固、氯化或者臭氧化。

Code:6235
English Term:physics
Chinese Term:物理学
Definition:The study of those aspects of nature which can be understood in a fundamental way in terms of elementary principles and laws.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:可以用基本方法了解基本原则和自然规律那些方面的研究。

Code:6240
English Term:physiology
Chinese Term:生理学
Definition:The biological study of the functions of living organisms and their parts.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Translation:生物功能及其组成部分的研究。

Code:6243
English Term:phytomass
Chinese Term:植物量
Definition:Plant biomass; any quantitative estimate of the total mass of plants in a stand, population, or within a given area, at a given time.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Translation:植物总量；在某个特定的区域和特定的时间，某种植物定量估计的总质量。

Code:6244
English Term:phytopathology
Chinese Term:植物病理学
Definition:The study of plant diseases and their control.&#10;(Source: ZINZAN)
Translation:植物病和对其控制的研究。

Code:6247
English Term:phytoplankton
Chinese Term:浮游植物
Definition:Planktonic plant life.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:浮游植物生命。

Code:11187
English Term:phytosanitary treatment
Chinese Term:植物检疫处理
Definition:Removal of heavy metals from water by the employment of plants or treatment by which plant organisms act to degrade hazardous organic contaminants or transform hazardous inorganic contaminants to environmentally safe levels in soils, subsurface materials, water, sludges, and residues.&#10;(Source: ENVAR /  LBL)
Translation:从水中去除重金属，由植物降解有机污染物，减轻危害行为，实现环保安全。降低危险无机污染物在土壤表层材料的水平，包括水、污泥、残留。

Code:6248
English Term:phytosociology
Chinese Term:植物社会学
Definition:The study of vegetation, including the organization, interdependence, development, geographical distribution and classification of plant communities.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Translation:植被研究，包括植物的组织、相互依存、发展、地理分布和植物群落的分类。

Code:6250
English Term:phytotoxicity
Chinese Term:植物毒性

Code:6252
English Term:pickling plant
Chinese Term:酸洗工厂
Definition:Plant where scale is removed from iron and steel usually by means of immersion in a hot hydrochloric or sulphuric acid bath. Wastes include spent pickling liquor, sludges and rinse water.&#10;(Source: PORTa)
Translation:规模化生产钢和铁的工厂通常采用的方法是沉浸在热盐酸或硫酸浴中。废料包括酸洗白酒、污泥和漂洗用水。

Code:12476
English Term:piggery
Chinese Term:猪舍
Definition:A place where pigs are kept and reared.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 一个保存和饲养猪的地方。

Code:6262
English Term:pilot plant
Chinese Term:试验工场
Definition:A small version of a planned industrial plant, built to gain experience in operating the final plant.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:规划的小型工厂，通过运行这个小型工厂为建造最终的工厂获取经验。

Code:6263
English Term:pilot project
Chinese Term:试验计划
Definition:A small scale experiment or set of observations undertaken to decide how and whether to launch a full-scale project.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:通过小规模的试验及其结果决定如何和是否启动一个全面的项目。

Code:6261
English Term:pilotage
Chinese Term:领航
Definition:The service provided by a pilot, one who controls the movements of a ship or aircraft by visual or electronic means.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:由领航员提供的服务，通过视觉或电子手段控制船或航空器的运动。

Code:6268
English Term:pinniped
Chinese Term:鳍足类
Definition:Belonging to the Pinnipedia, an order of aquatic placental mammals having a streamlined body and limbs specialized as flippers: includes seals, sea lions, and the walrus.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:属于鳍脚亚目，这类水生哺乳动物有一个精简的胎盘，身体四肢为蛙脚；例如海豹、海狮和海象。

Code:6274
English Term:pipe
Chinese Term:管
Definition:A tube made of metal, clay, plastic, wood, or concrete and used to conduct a fluid, gas, or finely divided solid.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:各种材料做成的管，包括金属、粘土、塑料、木材、混凝土等。用来传输液体、气，且非常牢固。

Code:6270
English Term:pipeline
Chinese Term:管道
Definition:A line of pipe connected to valves and other control devices, for conducting fluids, gases, or finely divided solids.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:一条连接到阀和其它控制装置的管，进行液体、气体或细碎固体的传输。

Code:14900
English Term:pixel
Chinese Term:像素
Definition:A contraction of the words 'picture element'. The smallest unit of information in an image or raster map. Referred to as a resolution cell in an image or grid.&#10;(Source: JEFF)
Translation:“图像单元”的缩略词。最小单位的图像信息或光栅地图。指图像或网格的一个分辨率单元。

Code:6276
English Term:plain
Chinese Term:平原
Definition:An extensive, broad tract of level or rolling, almost treeless land with a shrubby vegetation, usually at a low elevation.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:广袤的，绵延起伏的地带，几乎没有树木，有灌木植被，通常位于低海拔地区。

Code:6279
English Term:plan
Chinese Term:计划
Definition:A scheme of action, a method of proceeding thought out in advance.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Translation:行动计划，实施过程前的考虑。

Code:6280
English Term:plane source
Chinese Term:平面源
Definition:Pollution which arises from various activities with no discrete source.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Translation:各种活动所产生的污染来源。

Code:6282
English Term:plankton
Chinese Term:浮游生物
Definition:Small organisms (animals, plants, or microbes) passively floating in water.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:小型生物（动物、植物或微生物被动地漂浮在水上）。


Code:6285
English Term:planned urban development
Chinese Term:都市发展规划
Definition:Any physical extension of, or changes to, the uses of land in metropolitan areas following certain preparations or designs.&#10;(Source: CGP)
Translation:城市物理上的延伸或改变，在大都市地区设计和使用土地的若干准备。

Code:6287
English Term:planning
Chinese Term:规划
Definition:The act of making a detailed scheme for attaining an objective.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:达到目的的详细行动计划。

Code:6290
English Term:planning law
Chinese Term:规划法
Definition:A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to organize, designate and regulate land use within its domain through zoning laws, subdivision regulations, rent and sign controls, growth management and other measures designed to protect human health and ecological integrity.&#10;(Source: PLA)
Translation:由政府规定的具有约束力的规则或一组规则，用来组织、指定、规范土地使用，通过它，房屋租售由相应的细分法规管制，成长管理和其他措施旨在保护人类健康和生态完整性。

Code:6291
English Term:planning measure
Chinese Term:计划措施
Definition:A procedure or course of action taken to design, organize or prepare for the future.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:为设计、组织和未雨绸缪所采取的程序或过程。

Code:6292
English Term:planning permission
Chinese Term:建筑许可
Definition:An authorization, license or equivalent control document issued by a government agency that approves a step by step method and process of defining, developing and outlining various possible courses of action to meet existing or future needs, goals and objectives.&#10;(Source: TOE / ISEP)
Translation:授权许可文件或相关管理机关批准，按照循序渐进的方法和过程来设计、开发、生产、界定各种可能的行动方针，以满足现有或将来的需求、目标和宗旨。

Code:6293
English Term:Planning-Programming-Budgeting System
Chinese Term:预算制度
Definition:A system to achieve long-term goals or objectives by means of analysis and evaluation of the alternatives. PPB is designed to solve problems by finding the most effective and most efficient solution on the basis of objective criteria.&#10;(Source: GREENW)
Translation:一个系统，通过分析和评价候选方案实现长期的目标。通过设计PPB来试图解决该问题，通过主观评价发现最有效和高效的解决方案。

Code:6323
English Term:plant (biology)
Chinese Term:植物（生物)
Definition:Any living organism that typically synthesizes its food from inorganic substances, possesses cellulose cell walls, responds slowly and often permanently to a stimulus, lacks specialized sense organs and nervous system, and has no powers of locomotion.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:从无机物质中摄取食物，拥有纤维素细胞壁，缓慢的和经常性的对刺激产生反应，缺乏专门的传感器和神经系统，并且有运动力量的生物体。

Code:11869
English Term:plant biology
Chinese Term:植物生物学
Definition:The scientific study of the natural processes of plants.&#10;(Source: CAMBa)
Translation:植物自然过程的科学研究。

Code:6298
English Term:plant breeding
Chinese Term:作物育种
Definition:Raising a certain type of plant by crossing one variety with another to produce a new variety where the desired characteristics are strongest.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation:通过与别的品种嫁接，得到期望特征的新的品种。

Code:6299
English Term:plant community
Chinese Term:植物群落
Definition:Any group of plants belonging to a number of different species that co-occur in the same habitat or area and interact through trophic and spatial relationships; typically characterized by reference to one or more dominant species.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Translation:属于数个不同植物物种的集合，在同一环境或地区通过营养和空间关系，形成一个或多个的优势物种。

Code:6300
English Term:plant component
Chinese Term:植物组成
Definition:The constituent parts of a plant.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Translation:植物的组成部分。

Code:6304
English Term:plant disease
Chinese Term:植物病害

Code:8910
English Term:plant ecology
Chinese Term:植物生态学
Definition:Study of the relationships between plants and their environment.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Translation: 研究植物及其环境的关系。
Code:6305
English Term:plant equipment
Chinese Term:工厂设备
Definition:The equipment, including machinery, tools, instruments, and fixtures necessary for an industrial or manufacturing operation.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Translation:设备包括机器、工具、仪器仪表及设施所需的工业或生产操作。

Code:6307
English Term:plant genetics
Chinese Term:植物遗传学
Definition:The scientific study of the hereditary material of plants for purposes such as hybridization, improved food resources and increased production.&#10;(Source: EEN)
Translation:研究植物的遗传物质的学科，如杂交改良食物资源以提高产量。

Code:6309
English Term:plant health care
Chinese Term:植物保健

Code:10667
English Term:plant heritage
Chinese Term:植物遗产
Definition:The sum of the earth's or a particular region's herb, vegetable, shrub and tree life viewed as the inheritance of the present generation, especially plant species deemed worthy of preservation and protection from extinction.&#10;(Source: PPP / OED)
Translation:特定地区的草本植物、树和灌木、蔬菜，特别是如何防止植物物种的灭绝。

Code:10043
English Term:plant life
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 植物生命

Code:6316
English Term:plant physiology
Chinese Term:植物生理学
Definition:The study of the function and chemical reactions within the various organs of plants.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Translation:,植物不同器官的功能和化学反应。

Code:10633
English Term:plant population
Chinese Term:植物群体
Definition:The number of plants in an area.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation:植物的数量。

Code:10044
English Term:plant production
Definition: No definition needed.
Chinese Term: 植物生产

Code:6318
English Term:plant protection
Chinese Term:植物保护
Definition:Conservation of plant species that may be rare or endangered, and of other plants of particular significance.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation:保护植物物种，具有特殊意义的稀有或濒危植物。

Code:6310
English Term:plant protection product
Chinese Term:植物保护产品
Definition:Any substance or mixture of substances which through physiological action protects the plants against parasites, fungi, virus, or other damaging factors.&#10;(Source: KORENa)
Translation:通过使用物质或混合物质保护植物生理作用，防止寄生虫、真菌、病毒、或其它破坏性因素。

Code:8918
English Term:plant reproduction
Chinese Term:植物繁殖
Definition:Any of various processes, either sexual or asexual, by which a plant produces one or more individuals similar to itself.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:各种各样的植物繁殖过程，包括有性或无性繁殖。植物生产一个或多个类似本身的个体。

Code:8919
English Term:plant resource
Chinese Term:植物来源
Definition: No definition needed.

Code:8912
English Term:plant selection
Chinese Term:植物选种
Definition:The selection by man of particular genotypes in a plant population because they exhibit desired phenotypic characters.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Translation:由人对植物的特殊基因型进行选择，因为这些基因型呈现所需的显性特征。

Code:10074
English Term:plant species
Chinese Term:植物物种
Definition:Species belonging to the plant kingdom.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:植物王国中的物种。

Code:10672
English Term:plant species reintroduction
Definition:Reintroducing wild plant species to their natural habitat. The reintroduction of species in a region requires a preliminary study to establish the reasons of their disappearance and the modifications that might have occurred in the biotopes.&#10;(Source: SCIFRI /  RAMADE)
Chinese Term: 植物物种的重新引入
Translation:将野生植物物种重新引入它们的栖息地。在一个地区恢复物种需要初步的研究，发现它们失踪的原因，按照生态群落中可能发生的情况进行改变。

Code:6325
English Term:plant textile fibre
Chinese Term:植物纺织品纤维
Definition:Natural textile fibres of vegetal origin.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:纺织纤维的天然植物源。

Code:6326
English Term:plant trade
Chinese Term:植物贸易
Definition:Trade of plants is subjected to regulations established by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES).&#10;(Source: DUNSTEa)
Translation:植物贸易要遵从国际贸易大会建立的章程（援引）。

Code:6312
English Term:plantigrade
Chinese Term:踯行动物
Definition:Pertaining to mammals walking with the whole sole of the foot touching the ground.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:哺乳动物的整体和脚接触地面。

Code:6313
English Term:planting
Chinese Term:种植
Definition:The establishment of trees by planting seedlings, transplants, or cuttings.&#10;(Source: DUNSTE)
Translation:树木被种植、扦插苗、移植。

Code:6327
English Term:plasma technology
Definition:1) Common name for a number of industrial applications of plasma, such as: etching of semiconductor chips, deposition of silicon for solar cell production, deposition of silicon dioxide for passivation of surfaces, activation of surfaces, melting and welding with plasma arcs as well as plasma chemistry. &#10;2) Plasma technology consists of minute gas-filled cells, which emit light when an electric current is channelled through them.&#10;(Source: IEAP /  Z2Z)
Chinese Term: 电浆技术
Translation:1） 俗称为工业应用等离子，如半导体芯片，太阳能电池生产的硅蚀刻沉积，沉积二氧化硅表面的钝化，表面活化，等离子弧熔化和焊接以及电浆化学。2） 等离子体技术包括快速充气单元，当电流通过时发光。

Code:6329
English Term:plastic
Chinese Term:塑料
Definition:A polymeric material (usually organic) of large molecular weight which can be shaped by flow; usually refers to the final product with fillers, plasticizers, pigments, and stabilizers included (versus the resin, the homogeneous polymeric starting material); examples are polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, and urea-formaldehyde.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:一种高分子材料（通常是有机大分子），可以流动，通常作为最终产品和填料、增塑剂、稳定剂、颜料、树脂，包括（相对均匀的高分子原料）；例子是聚氯乙烯、聚乙烯、脲醛。

Code:6336
English Term:plastic waste
Chinese Term:塑料废料
Definition:Any discarded plastic (organic, or synthetic, material derived from polymers, resins or cellulose) generated by any industrial process, or by consumers.&#10;(Source: APD)
Translation:在工业工程中产生的废弃的塑料（有机合成、材料或来自聚合物、树脂或纤维素）。

Code:6338
English Term:platinum
Chinese Term:铂
Definition:A ductile malleable silvery-white metallic element very resistant to heat and chemicals. It occurs free and in association with other platinum metals, especially in osmiridium; used in jewellery, laboratory apparatus, electrical contacts, dentistry, electroplating, and as a catalyst.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:银白色的金属元素，具有很好的韧性和可塑性，非常耐热。用于首饰、实验室器材、电触点、牙医和电镀，可作为催化剂。

Code:6339
English Term:playground
Chinese Term:操场
Definition:A piece of land used for recreation, especially by children, often including equipment such as swings and slides.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 用于娱乐的一块土地，尤其是针对儿童，通常包括秋千和滑梯。

Code:14615
English Term:pleasure cruising
Chinese Term:快乐巡航
Definition:The activity of rowing, sailing or using a boat over a particular region of water, for amusement or enjoyment.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:划船、帆船或在一个特定的区域的水中使用船，用来娱乐和享受。

Code:6346
English Term:plutonium
Chinese Term:钚
Definition:A highly toxic metallic transuranic element. It occurs in trace amounts in uranium ores and is produced in a nuclear reactor by neutron bombardment of uranium-238. The most stable and important isotope, plutonium-239, readily undergoes fission and is used as a reactor fuel in nuclear power stations and in nuclear weapons.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:剧毒金属，超铀元素。它由微量铀矿在核反应堆的中子轰击中产生。是最稳定的、重要的同位素，经过分裂可作为核能发电厂和核子武器核反应堆的燃料。

Code:6355
English Term:poaching
Chinese Term:偷猎
Definition:To catch game, fish, etc. illegally by trespassing on private property.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:非法偷猎和侵犯私人财产，如鱼。

Code:14919
English Term:point
Chinese Term:重点
Definition:A position on a reference system determined by a survey.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Translation:基于调查得到的观点。

Code:6357
English Term:point source
Chinese Term:点源
Definition:Pollution from a discrete source, such as a septic tank, a sewer, a discharge type, a landfill, a factory or waste water treatment works discharging to a watercourse; stack emission from an industrial process; or spillage from an underground storage tank leaching into groundwater.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Translation:从离散的污染来源，例如化粪池、下水道、排水型、垃圾掩埋场，到污染处理工厂和废水处理工厂，再流到河流，或从地下储油罐溢出浸到地下水中造成污染。

Code:6358
English Term:poison
Chinese Term:毒药
Definition:A substance which, when ingested, inhaled, or absorbed, or when applied to, injected into, or developed within the body, in relatively small amounts, may cause injury, harm, or destruction to organs, tissue, or life.&#10;(Source: CONFER)
Translation:当吸入体内后，相对少量可能会造成伤害，量大会破坏人体器官。

Code:6359
English Term:poisoning
Chinese Term:中毒
Definition:The morbid condition produced by a poison which may be swallowed, inhaled, injected, or absorbed through the skin.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Translation:有多种情况可能导致中毒发病，如吞咽、吸入、注射、或通过皮肤吸收。

Code:6362
English Term:polar ecosystem
Chinese Term:极地生态系统
Definition:The interacting systems of the biological communities and their nonliving environmental surroundings located in the regions where the air temperature is perennially below Code:10° Celsius, usually at and near the North and South Poles.&#10;(Source: TOE / DOE / EOC)
Translation:生物群落和生物环境的交互位于气温是摄氏Code:10度以下的地区，通常位于北极和南极附近。

Code:6364
English Term:polar region
Chinese Term:极地
Definition:Area relating to the earth's poles or the area inside the Arctic or Antarctic Circles.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:该区域的地球磁极分别为北极和南极。

Code:6365
English Term:polder
Chinese Term:围垦地
Definition:A generally fertile tract of flat, low-lying land (as in Netherlands and Belgium) reclaimed and protected from the sea, a lake, a river, or other body of water by the use of embankments, dikes, dams, or levees. The term is usually reserved for coastal areas that are at or below sea level and that are constantly protected by an organized system of maintenance and defense.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation:普遍肥沃平坦、低洼的陆地（如荷兰和比利时），有保护海洋、湖泊、河流、或其它水域所使用的堤防、大坝或海堤。这个词通常用于沿海地区，达到或者低于海平面的区域，由一个组织体系提供不断的保护、维护和防御。

Code:6367
English Term:police
Chinese Term:警察
Definition:Branch of the government which is charged with the preservation of public order, the promotion of public health and safety, and the prevention, detection, and punishment of crimes.
Translation:政府部门，负责维护公共秩序，促进公共卫生和公共安全，预防、检查、惩罚犯罪。

Code:6368
English Term:police law
Chinese Term:警察法
Definition:A binding rule or body of rules prescribed by a government to regulate the employment and tactics of police or other civil agents organized to maintain order, prevent and detect crimes and promote obedience to civil regulations and authority.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:具有约束力的规则或规定，政府通过调用警察或其它民事代理组织来维持公共秩序，防止和侦查犯罪，促进遵守民事法规。

Code:11548
English Term:police power
Chinese Term:治安权

Code:6370
English Term:policy
Chinese Term:政策

Code:6372
English Term:policy guideline
Chinese Term:方针政策

Code:6373
English Term:policy instrument
Chinese Term:政策工具
Definition:The method or mechanism used by government, political parties, business or individuals to achieve a desired effect, through legal or economic means.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:采用某种方法或机制，通过法律和经济手段，政党、政府或个人达到预期的效果。

Code:6374
English Term:policy integration
Chinese Term:整合政策
Definition:The process of coordinating, harmonizing and unifying the goals and procedures of various offices or units of an organization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 各办事处或单位组织之间具有良好的沟通、协调的过程和统一的目标。

Code:6378
English Term:policy planning
Chinese Term:政策计划
Definition:The process of making arrangements or preparations to facilitate any course of action that may be adopted and pursued by government, business or some other organization.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:安排或准备的过程，由政府或者某一组织采取和实施的任何计划。

Code:6380
English Term:political counselling
Chinese Term:政治辅导

Code:6381
English Term:political doctrine
Chinese Term:政治学说
Definition:A policy, position or principle advocated, taught or put into effect concerning the acquisition and exercise of the power to govern or administrate in society.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 一项政策，立场或原则主张，通过教导或进入有关的支配权力部门，或将社会管理工作落到实处。

Code:6382
English Term:political ecology
Chinese Term:政治生态

Code:6383
English Term:political geography
Chinese Term:政治地理学
Definition:The study of the effects of political actions on human geography, involving the spatial analysis of political phenomena.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Translation:人文地理影响政治活动，政治行为涉及的空间分析和政治现象。

Code:13335
English Term:political ideology
Chinese Term:政治意识形态
Definition:A belief system that explains and justifies a preferred economic and governmental order for society, offers strategies for its maintenance or attainment and helps give meaning to public events, personalities and policies.&#10;(Source: APS)
Translation:一种信仰体系，社会和政府首选的经济秩序，维护或实现其战略意义，有助于让公众了解事件，人物和政策的意义。

Code:6384
English Term:political organisation
Chinese Term:政治组织
Definition:A group of persons organized to seek or exercise power in governmental or public affairs, by supporting candidates for office or by lobbying for action and mobilizing support for bills or governmental policies.&#10;(Source: CIV / BLD)
Translation:一群人或组织寻求行使政府权力，以支持公共事务或游说候选人支持其行动，充分运用当地政府的政策法案。

Code:6387
English Term:political party
Chinese Term:政党
Definition:An organized group that has as its fundamental aim the attainment of political power and public office for its designated leaders. Usually, a political party will advertise a common commitment by its leaders and its membership to a set of political, social, economic and/or cultural values.&#10;(Source: DUC)
Translation:一个有组织的集团，根本宗旨是实现政治权力和指定领导。通常，政党的宣传包括一组其领导人和成员共同承诺的政治、社会、经济和/或文化价值。

Code:6388
English Term:political power
Chinese Term:政治力量
Definition:The might, ability or authority of governments, citizens groups and other interested parties in enacting change or in influencing or controlling the outcome of governmental or public policies affecting a nation, region or municipality.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation:公民的政府机关、团体和其它利害关系人制定政策来改变或影响控制政府，从而影响一个国家、地区或者自治区。

Code:6371
English Term:politics
Chinese Term:政治
Definition:The theory and practice of acquiring and exercising the power to govern in a society in order to arbitrate values, allocate resources and establish and enforce rules.&#10;(Source: APS)
Translation:获取和形成社会价值观的理论和实践，以仲裁的形式分配资源和建立强制规则。

Code:6392
English Term:pollen
Chinese Term:花粉
Definition:Microspores of seed-producing plants. Each pollen grain contains a much-reduced male gametophyte. Pollen grains are transferred by wind, water, birds or other animals.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation:植物的孢子。每个花粉颗粒包含雄性配子体。借助风、水、鸟或其它动物来转移花粉颗粒。

Code:6395
English Term:pollutant
Chinese Term:污染物
Definition:Any substance, usually a residue of human activity, which has an undesirable effect upon the environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:通常是人类活动的残留物质，对环境有不良影响。

Code:6396
English Term:pollutant absorption
Chinese Term:污染物吸附
Definition:The process by which a pollutant is physically incorporated into another substance or body.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:污染物被完全合并到另一种物质或体内的过程。

Code:6397
English Term:pollutant accumulation
Chinese Term:污染物累积
Definition:The process by which concentrations of pollutants progressively increase in the tissues of living organisms in environments where these pollutants are present.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:在这个过程中，生物群落生活的环境中污染物浓度逐步增加。

Code:6399
English Term:pollutant analysis
Chinese Term:污染物分析
Definition:The determination of the composition of any substance that causes pollution, using classical laboratory techniques and other methods involving analytical chemistry.&#10;(Source: APD)
Translation:任何导致污染的物质的确定构成，使用古典介入分析化学的实验技术和其它方法。

Code:6400
English Term:pollutant assessment
Chinese Term:污染评估

Code:6402
English Term:pollutant behaviour
Chinese Term:污染行为

Code:6404
English Term:pollutant concentration
Chinese Term:污染物浓度
Definition:A measure of the amount of a polluting substance in a given amount of water, soil, air, food or other medium.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:测定污染物质在给定的水、土、空气、食物或其它媒介中的量。

Code:6405
English Term:pollutant degradation
Chinese Term:污染物降解
Definition:The physical, chemical or biological breakdown of a complex polluting material into simpler components.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:在物理、化学、生物分解作用下，将成分复杂的污染物变成简单的成分。

Code:6406
English Term:pollutant deposition
Chinese Term:污染物淤积
Definition:The act or process in which polluting agents settle or accumulate naturally in ecosystems.&#10;(Source: APD)
Translation:一种行为或过程，在该过程中，污染物自然地安置和累积。

Code:6407
English Term:pollutant dispersion
Chinese Term:污染物扩散
Definition:The spreading of pollutants from a point of release in air, soil and water. The dispersion of air pollutants is heavily influenced by how and where the pollutant is emitted, e.g., by continuous low-level versus accidental releases, multiple stacks versus a few, or the height of the stacks. The nature of the local terrain meteorology and the chemistry of the released material strongly influence the pattern of regional and, finally, global dispersion and transport.
Translation:污染物通过传播释放到空气、土壤和水中。空气污染物扩散的问题是在哪里及如何处理污染物的排放，例如通过连续的少量的释放，或多重叠加的释放。局部地形气象学和化学物质属性会强烈影响释放的模式。最后，污染物扩散涉及到区域和全球的分散性和运输。

Code:6409
English Term:pollutant distribution
Chinese Term:污染物分布
Definition:Arrangement, or pattern, associated with the occurrence of pollutants over a geographical area.&#10;(Source: ALL / ISEP)
Translation:某个地理区域污染物的布置和分布模式。

Code:6412
English Term:pollutant elimination
Chinese Term:污染消除
Definition:The process of completely removing a pollutant's source as well as the pollutant itself.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Translation:完全去除污染物来源及其污染物本身的过程。

Code:6413
English Term:pollutant emission
Chinese Term:污染排放
Definition:Release of polluting substances in the air, water and soil from a given source and measured at the immission point.&#10;(Source: DIFID)
Translation:污染物从特定的来源释放到空气、水和土壤中。

Code:10089
English Term:pollutant evolution
Chinese Term:污染演化
Definition:The process of cumulative reactive change following the introduction of a pollutant into the environment.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation:污染物经过累积反应改变的过程后逐渐进入环境。

Code:6414
English Term:pollutant exposure
Chinese Term:污染物暴露
Definition:The act or state of being subjected to a substance that adversely affects human health, property or the environment.&#10;(Source: RHW / TOE)
Translation:一种物质的活动和状态，会使人体健康、财产、环境受到不利影响。

Code:11633
English Term:pollutant flow
Chinese Term:污染物流程
Definition:The forward continuous motion or diffusion of polluting substances, or the rate or quantity in which polluting substances move from one place to another.&#10;(Source: MHD / WWC)
Translation:在分析的基础上，得出污染物从一个地方移到另一个地方扩散的连续过程，或扩散率，或扩散数量。

Code:6415
English Term:pollutant formation
Chinese Term:污染物形成
Definition:The act or process in which polluting agents are created, produced or formed.&#10;(Source: OED / RHW)
Translation:污染代理创建、产生或形成的过程。

Code:6417
English Term:pollutant immission
Chinese Term:污染物释入
Definition:The transfer of solid, liquid, or gaseous contaminants in the air, water, and soil.&#10;(Source: DIFIDa)
Translation:固体、液体或者气体污染物进入空气、水和土壤。

Code:6418
English Term:pollutant immobilisation
Chinese Term:污染物停止流通
Definition:The treatment process used to reduce the solubility of pollutants in order to minimize possible migration or leaching or to prepare for their disposal.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:在处理过程中用来减少污染物的溶解性，为了减少污染物可能的迁移或为处理做准备。

Code:6421
English Term:pollutant level
Chinese Term:污染物水平
Definition:A value representing the concentration of a polluting agent in a specified area, often determined by a measuring and recording device.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:在一个特定的区域代表污染浓度的一个值，通常由测量和记录设备决定。

Code:6422
English Term:pollutant load
Chinese Term:污染负荷
Definition:The amount of polluting material that a transporting agent, such as a stream, a glacier, or the wind, is actually carrying at a given time.&#10;(Source: LWW)
Translation:运输的污染物的总量，如流、冰川、风，并在一个给定的时间内进行。

Code:11636
English Term:pollutant migration
Chinese Term:污染物迁移
Definition:Uncontrolled movement, caused by percolation or other processes, of liquid or gaseous polluting materials from an original source area into other parts of an ecosystem.&#10;(Source: MHD)
Translation:未受管制的污染物移动，造成渗透或其它过程，液体或气体从一个初始源区域进入生态系统的其它部分。

Code:6423
English Term:pollutant mobilisation
Chinese Term:

Code:6425
English Term:pollutant monitoring
Chinese Term:污染物监测
Definition:Periodic or continuous determination of the amount of pollutants present in the environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:周期性的或连续的确定污染物在环境中存在的量。

Code:6428
English Term:pollutant pathway
Chinese Term:污染物途径
Definition:The retraceable route of a pollutant, from its source, through its interactions with the environment, and finally to its effect upon a target ecosystem or target organisms.&#10;(Source: ISEP)
Translation: 从源头上可追溯的污染物，通过它与环境的相互作用最终影响目标生态系统或特定生物。

Code:6429
English Term:pollutant reduction
Chinese Term:污染物减少
Definition:All measures aimed at reducing pollutants often through physical or chemical removal of toxic, or potentially toxic, materials.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  FFD)
Translation:所有旨在减少污染物的措施，通常是通过物理或化学清除有毒、或潜在有毒的材料。

Code:6430
English Term:pollutant remobilisation
Chinese Term:污染物

Code:6438
English Term:pollutant source identification
Chinese Term:污染物来源证明

Code:6441
English Term:polluted matter
Definition:A solid, liquid or gas that has been contaminated, rendered impure or made unsafe for use.&#10;(Source: HMD / ISEP)
Chinese Term: 污染物质
Translation:被污染的固体、液体或者气体，成分变得不纯，或使用不安全。

Code:5857
English Term:polluted site
Chinese Term:污染点
Definition:Any place that has been made unclean or unsafe by the discharge of high concentrations of hazardous or detrimental substances into its water, soil or atmosphere.&#10;(Source: DOE)
Translation:任何已经不洁净和不安全的地方，主要是由于排放高危险浓度或有害的物质到它的水、土和大气中。

Code:6443
English Term:polluter-pays principle
Chinese Term:污染者支付原则
Definition:The principle that those causing pollution should meet the costs to which it gives rise.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Translation: 原则，由造成污染的一方来负责承担清除污染的责任。

Code:6445
English Term:pollution
Chinese Term:污染
Definition:The indirect or direct alteration of the biological, thermal, physical, or radioactive properties of any medium in such a way as to create a hazard or potential hazard to human health or to the health, safety or welfare of any living species.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation: 对生物、热学、物理或放射性的任何介质的属性进行间接或直接的改动，造成对人体健康、安全或任何生物物种的福利的危险或潜在危害。

Code:6446
English Term:pollution abatement
Chinese Term:减轻污染
Definition:The reduction in degree or intensity of pollution in soil, rivers, lakes, seas, atmosphere, etc.&#10;(Source: PHC /  LANDY)
Translation:减少在土壤、河、湖、海、大气等污染的程度或强度。

Code:6447
English Term:pollution abatement equipment
Chinese Term:减轻污染设备
Definition:Equipment for the reduction in degree or intensity of pollution.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:减少污染程度或强度的设备。

Code:12377
English Term:pollution abatement waste
Definition:Wastes resulting from the operations of pollutant removal from industries, cleaning processes, etc.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Chinese Term: 污染清理废料
Translation:由于清除污染物的操作，从产业、清洗过程中产生的废料。

Code:6451
English Term:pollution control
Chinese Term:污染控制
Definition:Chemical and physical methods to lessen discharges of most pollutants; for carbon dioxide there is, at present, no economic or practical way to reduce the quantities discharged except by reduced fossil fuel usage. Most specific means for removing pollutants from emissions include flue-gas desulphurisation, fluidised combustion, catalytic converters and the redesign of equipment, such as furnace burners and car engines, to lessen the production of pollutants.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Translation:使用化学和物理的方法来减少污染物的排放，主要是二氧化碳的排放；目前还没有经济、实用的方法来减少化学燃料的使用及其造成的污染排放量。大多数对污染物排放的处理包括烟气脱硫、流化床、插入燃烧、催化转换器和重新设计的设备，如炉燃烧器和汽车发动机，以减少污染物的产生。

Code:6452
English Term:pollution control equipment
Chinese Term:污染控制设备
Definition:Devices for the reduction and/or removal of those emissions to the environment which have the potential to cause pollution.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Translation:一种设备，用来减少和/或清除污染物排放到环境中可能造成污染。

Code:11070
English Term:pollution control investment
Chinese Term:污染控制投资
Definition:Securities held for the production of income in the form of interest and dividends with the aim of controlling or reducing pollution or substances in the environment deemed harmful to human health and natural resources.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  EFP)
Translation:证券所发行的以利息和红利形式得到收益的债券，以控制或减少污染，以及环境对人体健康的危害。

Code:13306
English Term:pollution control measure
Chinese Term:污染控制措施
Definition:Procedure or course of action taken to curb or reduce human-made or human-alteration of the physical, biological, chemical and radiological integrity of air, water and other media.&#10;(Source: RHW / TOE)
Translation:采取物理、生物、化学和放射学的方法或计划来遏制或减少空气、水和其它媒介中的污染。

Code:6453
English Term:pollution control regulation
Chinese Term:污染控制调节
Definition:A body of rules or orders prescribed by government, management or an international organization or treaty in which limits are established for the emission of substances that harm or adversely alter the environment and human health.&#10;(Source: TOE / BLD)
Translation:由政府颁布的一系列规定或国际组织签订的条约，以管理污染释放的危害，以及对不利于环境和人类健康的污染的控制。

Code:6454
English Term:pollution control technology
Chinese Term:污染控制技术
Definition:Methods used to reduce the amount of contaminants discharged from a source.&#10;(Source: PATHUL)
Translation:减少污染物排放源的方法。

Code:1825
English Term:pollution cost
Chinese Term:污染成本
Definition:The amount of money incurred as a result of human-made or human-induced alteration of the physical, biological, chemical, and radiological integrity of air, water, and other media.&#10;(Source: EFP / TOE)
Translation:由人为造成的，对空气、水和其它媒介的物理、化学和辐射污染，并因此造成的开销。

Code:6458
English Term:pollution criterion
Chinese Term:污染尺度
Definition:Standard established for certain pollutants which limits their concentration.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:为限制某些污染物的浓度建立的标准。

Code:6459
English Term:pollution effect
Chinese Term:污染效应
Definition:The main pollution effects concern human health and cover all aspects of the physical environment - air, water and land, including the effects of climate change. Human activities which are sources of pollution arise from domestic, commercial, industrial and military sectors and their effects are influenced by various issues, trends and public sector programmes, such as safe water and food, management of waste, increasing use of chemicals in agriculture, and urbanization. Types of pollutants which are negatively impacting health include litter, toxic chemicals, nuclear waste, lead, spoil from mining, food and water contaminants; and the polluting effects of over-population.&#10;(Source: WPR)
Translation:污染影响人类健康和各方面的物理环境——包括空气、水和陆地，还包括气候变化所带来的影响。人类活动所产生的污染主要来自商业、工业、军事部门，污染的后果会造成多方面的问题。公共管理部门的污染治理项目，如安全的水和食物，管理如何在农业和城市化过程中使用化学品。污染物负面影响身体健康。有毒的化学物质包括核废料、铅、掠夺采矿、食物和水污染等，影响众多的人口。

Code:6462
English Term:pollution indicator
Chinese Term:污染指示
Definition:Organisms, mostly plants, which are most sensitive to slight changes in environmental factors. When identified their reaction can serve as an early warning of the endangerment of the health of a community.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation:大部分植物对微小的环境因素变化都非常敏感。因此确认它们的反应也可以作为早期污染预警的指标。

Code:12889
English Term:pollution insurance
Chinese Term:污染保险
Definition:A commercial agreement which provides protection against the risks, or a particular risk, associated with pollution, toxic waste disposal or related concerns.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:通过商业协议提供抵御污染风险的能力，或指某一特定风险，伴随污染、有毒废料或相关的问题。

Code:6464
English Term:pollution liability
Chinese Term:污染责任
Definition:Liability for injuries arising from the release of hazardous substances or pollutants or contaminants.
Translation: 由于有害物质或污染物或污染物释放造成的伤害所引起的责任。

Code:6465
English Term:pollution load
Chinese Term:污染负荷
Definition:The amount of stress placed upon an ecosystem by pollution, physical or chemical, released into it by man-made or natural means.&#10;(Source: FFD)
Translation:生态系统中的污染量，包括物理或化学制品，以及污染释的方式，包括人为的或自然手段。

Code:6467
English Term:pollution measurement
Chinese Term:污染测量
Definition:The assessment of the concentration of pollutants for a given time in a given point.&#10;(Source: FLGISA)
Translation: 在特定点和特定时间对污染物的集中评估。

Code:6469
English Term:pollution monitoring
Chinese Term:污染监测
Definition:The quantitative or qualitative measure of the presence, effect or level of any polluting substance in air, water or soil.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation:对空气、水或土壤中的污染物的出现、作用或水平的定量或定性的测量。

Code:6470
English Term:pollution norm
Chinese Term:污染准则

Code:10049
English Term:pollution prevention
Chinese Term:污染防治
Definition:Eliminating the production of hazardous wastes and greenhouse gases at their source, within the production process. This can often be achieved through a variety of relatively simple strategies, including minor changes in manufacturing processes, substitution of non-polluting products for polluting products, and simplification of packaging. Companies practicing waste reduction have saved hundreds of millions of dollars, and used it to catalyze employee involvement and eliminate the need for expensive end-of-the-pipe filtering.&#10;(Source: GLOCHA)
Translation:消除生产过程中危险废料和温室气体的来源。这通常可以通过各种各样相对简单的策略，包括对制造工艺小的改变，采用无污染的替代产品，简化可能带来污染的包装等。公司通过以上方式的应用减少废料损失数亿美元，并鼓励员工参与，消除昂贵的生产过程终端过滤的方式。

Code:6472
English Term:pollution risk
Chinese Term:污染风险
Definition:Probability of harm to human health, property or the environment posed by the introduction of an undesirable substance into the ecosystem.&#10;(Source: TOE)
Translation:对人身体健康造成危害的可能性，由于在生态系统中引入不宜的物质而引起的风险。

Code:6473
English Term:pollution sink
Chinese Term:污染汇集地
Definition:Vehicle for removal of a chemical or gas from the atmosphere-biosphere-ocean system, in which the substance is absorbed into a permanent or semi-permanent repository, or else transformed into another substance. A carbon sink, for example, might be the ocean (which absorbs and holds carbon from other parts of carbon cycle) or photosynthesis (which converts atmospheric carbon into plant material). Sinks are a fundamental factor in the ongoing balance which determines the concentration of every greenhouse gas in the atmosphere. If the sink is greater than the sources of a gas, its concentration in the atmosphere will decrease; if the source is greater than the sink, the concentration will increase.&#10;(Source: GLOCHA)
Translation:通过车辆运输将化学制品或气体从大气生物圈-海洋系统中移除，物质被吸收入永久或部分永久的贮藏库，或者被转换成另一种物质。例如碳水槽，是海洋中吸收并且与碳循环的其它部分反应，（或将大气碳转换成植物材料）的光合作用。水槽是在确定的温室气体中，保持大气平衡的一个根本因素。如果水槽的容积比气体的来源更大，它获得的大气浓度将减少；如果大气来源体积比水槽更大，则大气浓度将增加。

Code:10048
English Term:pollution type
Chinese Term:污染类型

Code:6481
English Term:polybrominated biphenyl
Chinese Term:多溴联苯
Definition:A chemical substance the composition of which, without regard to impurities, consists of brominated biphenyl molecules.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Translation:一种化学物质，不考虑杂质，包括溴化的联苯分子的构成。

Code:6486
English Term:polychlordibenzo-p-dioxin
Chinese Term:二恶英
Definition:PCDD are formed (along with variants including furans) when compounds containing chlorine are burnt at low temperature in improperly operated/designed domestic refuse and industrial waste incinerators where PCDDs can be found in both the flue gases and the fly ash.&#10;(Source: PORT)
Translation: 形成PCDD（包括呋喃等变异体），当包含氯的化合物被燃烧后，PCDDs可以在废气和飞烟中找到。由于废料和工业废料焚烧炉的设计和操作不当会产生该物质。

Code:6485
English Term:polychlorinated biphenyl
Chinese Term:多氯联苯
Definition:PCBs are a family of chemical compounds which do not exist in nature but which are man-made. Commercial mixtures are clear, pale yellow liquids, manufactured by the replacement of hydrogen atoms on the biphenyl molecule by chlorine. Because of their physical properties, PCBs are commonly found in electrical equipment which requires dielectric fluid such as power transformers and capacitors, as well as in hydraulic machinery, vacuum pumps, compressors and heat-exchanger fluids. Other uses include: lubricants, fluorescent light ballasts, paints, glues, waxes, carbonless copy paper, inks including newspapers, dust-control agents for dirt roads, solvents for spreading insecticides, cutting oils. PCBs are stable compounds and although they are no longer manufactured they are extremely persistent and remain in huge quantities in the atmosphere and in landfill sites. They are not water-soluble and float on the surface of water where they are eaten by aquatic animals and so enter the food chain. PCBs are fat-soluble, and are therefore easy to take into the system, but difficult to excrete.&#10;(Source: PZ /  PHC)
Translation:PCBs是一种自然界不存的，只能通过人工合成的化合物。商用PCB混合物是清澈、淡黄色的液体，由氢原子替换联苯分子中的氯生成。由于其物理特性，PCBs常被用于电介质流体，例如电源变压器和电容器，并且在水力机械、真空泵、压缩机和热交换流体的电机设备中也被广泛应用。其它用途包括：润滑剂、荧光灯石碴、油漆、胶合、蜡、无碳型复印纸、墨水（包括报纸用墨水）、土路的灰尘控制、释放杀虫剂、乳化油溶剂等。PCBs是一种稳定的化合物。

Code:6487
English Term:polychlorinated dibenzofuran
Chinese Term:多氯二苯并呋喃
Definition:A family containing 135 individual, colorless compounds known as congeners with varying harmful health and environmental effects. They are produced as unwanted compounds during the manufacture of several chemicals and consumer products such as wood treatment chemicals, some metals, and paper products; also produced from the burning of municipal and industrial waste in incinerators, from exhaust of leaded gasoline, heat, or production of electricity. They are hazardous to the respiratory system, gastrointestinal system, liver, musculoskeletal system, skin and nervous system; and are toxic by inhalation, ingestion, and contact. Symptoms of exposure include frequent coughing, severe respiratory infections, chronic bronchitis, abdominal pain, muscle pain, acne rashes, skin color changes, unexpected weight loss, nonmalignant or malignant liver disease.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Translation:一个包含135种个体的化合物族，其中的无色化合物个体包含的有效杂质有害人体健康和对环境产生不利影响。这类化合物一般是作为不希望得到的化合物在生产过程中产生的，比如木处理化学品，某些金属、纸制品生产的附属物，也可以从燃烧工业废料中产生。它们对呼吸系统、消化系统、肝脏、皮肤和骨骼系统、神经系统都有害。吸入、摄入和接触后会产生中毒症状，包括严重的呼吸道感染、咳嗽、慢性支气管炎、腹部疼痛、肌肉疼痛、痤疮皮肤皮疹、皮肤颜色变化、体重下降和一些肝脏恶性疾病。

Code:6488
English Term:polychlorinated terphenyl
Chinese Term:多氯三联苯
Definition:Compounds consisting of three benzene rings linked to each other in either ortho, meta or para positions and substituted with chlorine atoms.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation: 包含三个连在一起的苯环的化合物，其中连接键的氢原子由氯原子取代。

Code:6492
English Term:polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon
Chinese Term:多环芳香碳氢化合物
Definition:Hydrocarbons containing two or more closed rings of atoms.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:包含两个或多个闭合原子结构的环状碳氢化合物。

Code:6493
English Term:polycyclic hydrocarbon
Chinese Term:多环碳氢化合物
Definition:Hydrocarbon molecule with two or more nuclei; examples are naphtalene, with two benzene rings side by side, or diphenyl, with two bond-connected benzene rings. Also known as polynuclear hydrocarbon.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:碳氢分子与两种或两种以上的细胞核相结合，例子包括萘；有两个苯环，肩并肩，或二苯，有两个连接键的苯环。也称为多核碳氢化合物。

Code:6497
English Term:polyethylene terephtalate
Chinese Term: 聚乙烯纤维
Definition:1) A thermoplastic polyester resin made from ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid; melts at 2:65°C; used to make films or fibers.&#10; 2) Type of plastic used to make artificial fibres and plastic bottles, which can be recycled.&#10;(Source: MGH /  PHC)
Translation:1）一种由聚酯树脂制成的对苯二甲酸乙二醇，熔点2:65℃；用来制作电影胶片或纤维。2）该类型的塑料用来制造人造纤维和塑料瓶子，可回收利用。

Code:14921
English Term: polygon
Chinese Term: 多边形
Definition:In the vector type of GIS internal data organization spatial data are conveniently divided into point, line and polygon types. Some vector GIS store information in the form of points, line segments and point pairs; others maintain close lists of points defining polygon regions.&#10;(Source: YOUNG)
Translation:在使用向量类型的地理信息系统（GIS）内部组织空间数据，方便区分点、线、多边形的类型。一些矢量地理信息系统（GIS）的信息储存形式，包括线、点和其它的点对点的形式定义的多边形区域。

Code:6499
English Term:polymer
Chinese Term:聚合物
Definition:Substance made of giant molecules formed by the union of simple molecules (monomers).&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:由大分子物质生成的结合分子（单体简单）。

Code:6498
English Term:polymerisation
Chinese Term:聚合
Definition:1) The bonding of two or more monomers to produce a polymer. &#10;2) Any chemical reaction that produces such a bonding.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:1）连接两个或更多的单体的聚合物。2）任何能产生这样连接的化学反应。

Code:6505
English Term:polyvinyl chloride
Chinese Term:聚氯乙烯
Definition:Polymer of vinyl chloride; tasteless, odourless; insoluble in most organic solvents; a member of the family of vinyl resins.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:乙烯基氯聚合物；无味，不能溶解在多数有机溶液中；是乙烯基树脂类的亲属。

Code:6507
English Term:pond
Chinese Term:塘
Definition:A natural body of standing fresh water occupying a small surface depression, usually smaller than a lake and larger than a pool.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation: 自然的静水塘，通常水质较好，有一定面积的水面，比湖要小，但比池要大。

Code:6510
English Term:pool
Chinese Term:池
Definition:A small, natural body of standing water, usually fresh; e.g. a stagnant body of water in a marsh, or a still body of water within a cave.&#10;(Source: BJGEO)
Translation:一个小的、自然的静水池，通常水质较好，比如沼泽地带或山洞中水塘。

Code:6519
English Term:population (ecological)
Chinese Term:人口
Definition:A group of organisms of one species, occupying a defined area.&#10;(Source: LBC)
Translation:生物种群的定义之一，包括占地面积。

Code:10918
English Term:population density
Chinese Term:人口密度
Definition:The number of people relative to the space occupied by them.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Translation:人数相对他们占据的空间的比例。

Code:6517
English Term:population distribution
Definition:The density, dispersal pattern and apportionment of the total number of persons in any area.&#10;(Source: RHW / EEN)
Chinese Term: 人口分布
Translation:在某个地区人口的密度、散布格局和分布的总数量。

Code:6518
English Term:population dynamics
Chinese Term:人口动态
Definition:The process of numerical and structural change within populations resulting from births, deaths, and movements.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:人口由于诞生、死亡和迁移引起的数量和结构的变化。

Code:6520
English Term:population ecology
Chinese Term:种群生态学
Definition:The study of the interaction of a particular species or genus population with its environment.&#10;(Source: ALL2)
Translation:特殊种群或类与它们生活环境的交互作用的研究。

Code:6523
English Term:population growth
Chinese Term:人口增长
Definition:An increase in the total number of inhabitants of a country, city, district or area.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:在国家、城市、区或者区域居住的居民总数的增量。

Code:6525
English Term:population movement
Chinese Term:人口迁移
Definition:Any shift or migration of a statistically significant number of persons inhabiting a country, district or area.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 统计意义上移到另外一个国家居住的人，包括地区或地区间人口的大量迁移。

Code:6527
English Term:population structure
Chinese Term:人口结构
Definition:The organization of, and inter-relationships among, inhabitants of a given region, country or city.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:区域、居民、国家或城市及其之间的相互关系。

Code:6528
English Term:population trend
Chinese Term:人口结构和人口数量的变化趋势
Definition:The direction of change in the total number of persons inhabiting a country, city, district or area.&#10;(Source: RHW / WMA)
Translation:居住在某个国家、城市、区或者区域的人的总数的变化趋势。

Code:8006
English Term:poriferan
Chinese Term:海绵动物
Definition:The sponges, a phylum of the animal kingdom characterized by the presence of canal systems and chambers through which water is drawn in and released; tissues and organs are absent.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:运河中出现的动物界的门；缺少部分组织和器官。

Code:10617
English Term:posidonia
Chinese Term:波西多尼亚
Definition:Plant with elongated, planar, green leaves which measure up to 1,5 m. The flowers come out in the autumn but not every year. The fruits are dark balls, which one often finds washed up on beaches after storms. The same happens with the leaves which wilt and separate from the plant at the end of summer. It grows on sandy substrates, and has a rhizome from which several plants grow. The compact form of its growths retains the sediments pulled by the currents along the sea bed. Neptunegrass forms extensive prairies, always on the continental shelf. The plant's presence, apart from constituting an excellent refuge and food reserve for many species, gives an indication of the maturity and good condition of the whole marine ecosystem.&#10;(Source: DDGI)
Translation:该植物有细长的、平面的、绿色的树叶，能达到1.5米。花朵在秋天开放，但并不是每一年都开放。水果是暗黑色的球形。每年的夏末树叶都会枯萎并离开树木。它生长在桑迪基质的土壤，并具有块茎。其生长保持紧凑的形式，并沿着海底。这种植物的存在，除了能构筑优秀的避难所和粮食储备，还能为整个海洋生态系统的状态提供指示。

Code:6536
English Term:post-treatment
Chinese Term:后处理
Definition:Treatment of treated water or wastewater to improve the water quality.&#10;(Source: LEE)
Translation:对污水进行处理以改善水质。

Code:6540
English Term:potash
Chinese Term:碳酸钾
Definition:Any of several compounds containing potassium, especially soluble compounds such as potassium oxide, potassium chloride, and various potassium sulfates, used chiefly in fertilizers.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Translation:可溶化合物，如钾氧化物、氯化钾，以及各种各样的钾硫酸盐，主要用于农业肥料。

Code:11212
English Term:potassium fertiliser
Chinese Term:钾肥
Definition:A chemical fertilizer containing potassium. Potassium (K) is required by all plant and animal life. Plants require potassium for photosynthesis, osmotic regulation and the activation of enzyme systems.&#10;(Source: AGRIC)
Translation: 含有钾的化学肥料。钾（K）是维持所有植物和动物生命必须的化学元素。植物的光合作用和活化酶系统需要钾渗透调节。

Code:6548
English Term:poultry
Chinese Term:家禽
Definition:Domesticated fowl grown for their meat and eggs.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:为获得它们的肉和鸡蛋而被驯化的家畜。

Code:6549
English Term:poultry farming
Chinese Term:家禽业
Definition:One of the commonest of agricultural occupations. Many urban households and many farms maintain some chickens for both meat and eggs.&#10;(Source: LOGIE)
Translation:一种最常见的农业职业。许多城市居民和许多农场都饲养一些鸡，为了吃肉和下蛋。

Code:6551
English Term:poverty
Chinese Term:贫困
Definition:State in which the individual lacks the resources necessary for subsistence.
Translation:个体缺乏必要生存资源的状态。

Code:6552
English Term:power company
Chinese Term:电力公司
Definition:Company which is responsible for the supply and distribution of electric energy to a given area.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:公司负责某一特定地区的电力供应和分配电能。

Code:6561
English Term:power station
Chinese Term:发电厂
Definition:A stationary plant containing apparatus for large-scale conversion of some form of energy (such as hydraulic, steam, chemical, or nuclear energy) into electrical energy.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:一个固定的工厂，其中有大规模的能源发电形式（如液压、蒸汽、化学或核能源转换设备）将各种能源转换为电能。

Code:11990
English Term:power station derating
Chinese Term:电站降额
Definition:The process by which a power plant is finally taken out of operation.&#10;(Source: ECHO1a)
Translation:将某个发电机组从发电作业流程中分离出来。

Code:6558
English Term:power-heat relation
Chinese Term:电源热关系
Definition:The ratio of the work done by an engine to the heat supplied.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Translation:由一个引擎提供的按比例的热量供给。

Code:6623
English Term:precautionary principle
Chinese Term:预防原则
Definition:Principle adopted by the UN Conference on Environment and Development (1992) that in order to protect the environment, a precautionary approach should be widely applied, meaning that where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage to the environment, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation:该原则在环境与发展（1992年）联合国会议上被采纳，为了保护环境，预防方法应得到广泛的应用。这意味着，如果有严重的或不可逆转的环境损害发生时，我们不能将缺乏足够的科学依据作为推迟对环境保护采取措施的借口。

Code:6570
English Term:precipitation (chemical)
Chinese Term:沉淀
Definition:The process of producing a separable solid phase within a liquid medium; represents the formation of a new condensed phase, such as a vapour or gas condensing to liquid droplets; a new solid phase gradually precipitates within a solid alloy as a result of slow, inner chemical reaction; in analytical chemistry, precipitation is used to separate a solid phase in an aqueous solution.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:在液体培养基内产生可分离的固体相的过程；代表着新的凝聚相的形成，如蒸汽冷凝液液滴或气体。有一种新的固体相通过逐步沉淀形成坚实的合金，这是一个缓慢的化学反应过程；在分析化学中，沉淀用于分离水溶液中的固体相。

Code:6571
English Term:precipitation enhancement
Chinese Term:人工增雨
Definition:Increase of precipitation resulting from changes in the colloidal stability of clouds. This can be either intentional, as with cloud seeding, or unintentional, as with air pollution, which increases aerosol concentrations and reduces sunlight.&#10;(Source: PARCOR)
Translation:增加降雨，主要是借助云层胶体稳定性的变化造成降水。这可以刻意为之，如在云层散步降雨剂，或无意的，如空气污染，气溶胶浓度的增加，减少了阳光照射。

Code:13218
English Term:precision engineering
Chinese Term:精密工程
Definition:Research and development, design, manufacture and measurement of high accuracy components and systems. It is related to mechanical, electronic, optical and production engineering, physics, chemistry, and computer and materials science.&#10;(Source: ASPE)
Translation:研究、开发、设计、制造高精度部件和测量系统。它关系到机械、电子、光学和生产，以及物理、化学、计算机和材料科学。

Code:6577
English Term:predator
Chinese Term:食肉动物
Definition:Animal which kills and eats other animals.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation:杀死并吃掉其它动物的动物。

Code:11623
English Term:pre-emption
Chinese Term:收买权
Definition:The right of first refusal to purchase land in the event that the grantor of the right should decide to sell.
Translation:可以第一个拒绝购买土地的权利，该决定权应出售给设保人。

Code:11333
English Term:pre-emption zone
Chinese Term:先发制人区
Definition: Areas that are subject to the pre-emption right which is a privilege accorded by the government to the actual settler upon a certain limited portion of the public domain, to purchase such tract at a fixed price to the exclusion of all other applicants.&#10;(Source: BLACKa)
Translation:一个区域，政府给予的优先购买权具有一定的时域限制，部分市民具有实际定居者的特权，以固定价格购买这种土地，而其他申请者被排除在外。

Code:6579
English Term:prefabricated building
Chinese Term:预制建筑
Definition:Building whose sections are manufactured in specialized factories and later transported and assembled on a building site.&#10;(Source: CEDa)
Translation:建筑的制造工厂，其产品要运输和装配到一个建筑工地。

Code:6583
English Term:preliminary proceedings
Chinese Term:初步程序
Definition:Any introductory action in the judicial process designed to determine the need for further court involvement or to expedite a motion that requires immediate attention.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation:任何行动，以确定需要进一步的法庭参与或加速的议案，以及需要立即注意的司法程序。

Code:6584
English Term:premium
Chinese Term:保险费
Definition:Amount to be paid for a contract of insurance or life assurance.
Translation:支付的保险或人寿保险合同的数额。

Code:13217
English Term:preparation for market
Chinese Term:准备市场
Definition:The containment, protection, handling and presentation of goods for the market.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:对市场进行保护、处理和展示。

Code:11624
English Term:prescription
Chinese Term:时效
Definition:Acquisition of a personal right to use a way, water, light and air by reason of continuous usage. Prescription is a peremptory and perpetual bar to every species of action, real or personal, when creditor has been silent for a certain time without urging his claim.&#10;(Source: WESTS)
Translation:获得使用道路、水、光和空气的个人权利。时效对于每种行为来说都是必须的和持续有效的。当时效的债权人保持沉默而不去要求他的权利时，时效就有可能失效。

Code:8082
English Term:prescription statutory limitation
Chinese Term:时效法定限制

Code:6586
English Term:preservation of evidence
Chinese Term:保全证据
Definition:To maintain and keep safe from harm, destruction or decay any species of proof legally presented at the trial of an issue, including witnesses, records, documents, exhibits and concrete objects.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation:为了保证安全，提交任何合法的证明物品，包括证人、记录、文件、证物和具体对象的审判。

Code:6587
English Term:preservative
Chinese Term:防腐剂
Definition:A chemical added to foodstuffs to prevent oxidation, fermentation or other deterioration, usually by inhibiting the growth of bacteria.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:一种添加到食品的化学物质，以防止氧化，通常通过抑制细菌的生长发酵或变质。

Code:6588
English Term:preserve
Chinese Term:保护
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:6591
English Term:press
Chinese Term:印刷
Definition: Printed matter as a whole, especially newspapers and periodicals.
Translation:印刷品作为一个整体，尤其是报纸和期刊

Code:12982
English Term:press release
Chinese Term:新闻稿
Definition:An official statement or announcement distributed to members of the media by a public relations firm, government agency or some other organization, often to supplement or replace an oral presentation.&#10;(Source: WOR)
Translation:由政府机构或其它组织委托公共关系公司给出的一份官方声明，经常向媒体以补充信息的方式口头介绍。

Code:6592
English Term:pressing
Chinese Term:压榨
Definition:The application of a pressure to squeeze out the juice or contents of a fruit, seed, etc.&#10;(Source: WEBSTE)
Translation:压力挤出果汁或种子等。

Code:6593
English Term:pressure
Chinese Term:压力
Definition:A type of stress which is exerted uniformly in all directions; its measure is the force exerted per unit area.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:四面八方被施加一致的重力；它的度量是以每个单位区间被施加的力量来计算。

Code:13224
English Term:pressure equipment
Chinese Term:压力环境
Definition:Equipment operating with an internal pressure greater than atmospheric.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:内部压力比大气压力大的设备。

Code:6594
English Term:pressure group
Chinese Term:压力集团
Definition:Any politically active group with a common set of values about resource use allocation. Pressure groups seek to influence decisions on resource use allocation in excess of their proportional representation in the planned-for populace by seeking preferential consideration for their resource use choices.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:对资源的使用和分配具有共同价值观且在政治上活跃的群体。压力团体试图影响对资源使用分配的比例，对超过计划的决定，在其资源使用的选择上会优先考虑。

Code:11661
English Term:prevention measure
Chinese Term:预防措施
Definition:Measures taken in advance to prevent the occurrence of disasters or similar emergencies.&#10;(Source: GUNNa)
Translation: 提前采取的、以预防灾害或突发事件发生的措施。

Code:12677
English Term:prevention of forest fires
Chinese Term:预防森林火灾
Definition:Precautionary actions, measures or installations implemented to avert the possibility of an unexpected conflagration of any large wooded area having a thick growth of trees and plants.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Translation:预防行动、措施或设施，以避免森林区发生意外火灾的可能性。

Code:6600
English Term:preventive health measure
Chinese Term:预防保健措施

Code:12866
English Term:preventive information
Chinese Term:预防信息
Definition:Data communicated or received concerning the recommended means of averting risk of an accident, disaster or other undesirable and avoidable incident.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:为避免发生事故而传递或收到的数据，关于灾害或其它不良事件的风险和可避免的手段。

Code:6602
English Term:price
Chinese Term:价格
Definition:The amount of money paid per unit for a good or service.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:为每单位商品或服务支付的金钱数额。

Code:13257
English Term:prices policy
Chinese Term:价格政策
Definition:The guiding procedure, philosophy, or course of action for decisions regarding the monetary rate or value for goods and services.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:有关货币汇率或决定商品和服务价值的指导过程和理念。

Code:6607
English Term:pricing policy of resources
Chinese Term:资源的定价政策
Definition:The guiding procedure or philosophy for decisions regarding the monetary rate or value of a country or region's resources, including natural resources, human resources and capital, or man-made goods.&#10;(Source: RHW / ODE)
Translation:这些指导原则有关货币汇率或一个国家或地区的资源价值，包括自然资源、人力资源和资本，或人造商品。

Code:6610
English Term:primary education
Chinese Term:初等教育
Definition:The first five or six years of instruction in elementary schools.&#10;(Source: COE)
Translation:第一个五年或六年制的小学教育。

Code:6614
English Term:primary energy consumption
Chinese Term:初级能源消费
Definition:Consumption of energy used in the same form as in its naturally occurring state, for example crude oil, coal, natural gas, e.g. before it is converted into electricity.&#10;(Source: BRACK)
Translation:在能源消费中使用其天然状态的形式，如原油、煤炭、天然气、电能。

Code:6622
English Term:primary forest
Chinese Term:原始森林
Definition:Forest which originally covered a region before changes in the environment brought about by people.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation:不是由人种植的、原本的森林覆盖。

Code:6619
English Term:primary sector
Chinese Term:初级成分
Definition:That part of a country's or region's economy that makes direct use of natural resources, including agriculture, forestry, fishing and the fuel, metal and mining industries.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:一个国家或地区的部分经济，直接使用天然资源，包括农业、林业、渔业和燃料、金属和采矿业等。

Code:12607
English Term:primary treatment
Chinese Term:初级处理
Definition:Removal of floating solids and suspended solids, both fine and coarse, from raw sewage.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:粗糙的、浮动的固体和暂时的固体去除。

Code:6621
English Term:primate
Chinese Term:灵长类
Definition:Order of mammals containing monkeys, apes, and human beings.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation:包含猴子、猿和人的哺乳动物。

Code:6624
English Term:principle of sustainability
Chinese Term:可持续发展准则
Definition:Principle stated by the World Commission on Environment and Development (The Bruntland Commission) in 1987: development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the needs of future generations. Sustainable development is a process of integrating economic, social and ecological goals, and should not mean a trade-off between the environment and development. Sustainable development should imply balance rather than conflict.&#10;(Source: GRAHAWa)
Translation:（布伦特兰委员会）在1987年制定的准则：发展必须符合当代人的需求又不损害子孙后代的需要。可持续发展是一个融合经济、社会和生态目标的进程，而不应意味着环境和发展之间的妥协。可持续发展应意味着平衡，而不是冲突。

Code:6627
English Term:printing industry
Chinese Term:印刷工业
Definition:A sector of the economy in which an aggregate of commercial enterprises is engaged in the reproduction of written text or images in multiple copies such as books, periodicals, newspapers or other similar formats.&#10;(Source: SIC)
Translation:一个经济部分，从事艺术、工艺或生产的书面文字或图像的多个副本复制业务，包括书籍、期刊、报纸或其它类似的形式。

Code:6630
English Term:printing work
Chinese Term:印刷工作
Definition:The art, process or business of producing reproductions of written text or images in multiple copies, in book, periodical or newspaper formats, or in other similar formats.&#10;(Source: SIC / RHW)
Translation:艺术、工艺或生产的书面文字或图像的多个副本复制业务，包括书籍、期刊或报纸的复制。

Code:6631
English Term:prior informed consent
Chinese Term:事先知情同意

Code:6632
English Term:prior notification for hazardous waste transport
Chinese Term:事先通知危险物运输
Definition:A formal announcement and, often, a request for permission to the proper governmental authorities of the intention to convey across political borders potentially harmful materials that have been left over from manufacturing or testing processes.&#10;(Source: KSA)
Translation:一种正式的通知，通常要求得到政府的许可，以执行（制造业和测试过程中产生的）有潜在危险的材料的垮边界运输任务。

Code:6634
English Term:private car
Chinese Term:私家车
Definition:Transportation mean belonging to an individual person.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:属于个人的交通工具。

Code:11524
English Term:private domain
Chinese Term:私人领域
Definition:Generally, land and water owned by individuals or corporations as opposed to the state; in French civil law, any government property capable of being owned by non-public entities, which cannot be seized and which is restricted to the stipulated ownership and use.&#10;(Source: BLD / ADM)
Translation:一般而言，该地区的土地和水由个人或公司拥有，而不是国家，在法国民事法中规定，任何政府财产，都可以被非公有制实体所拥有，但仅限于规定的所有权。

Code:10696
English Term:private forest
Chinese Term:私有林
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:6636
English Term:private household
Chinese Term:私人家庭
Definition:Living quarters where a group of persons (family) live together.&#10;(Source: GOOD)
Translation:生活在一起的一家人。

Code:13264
English Term:private international law
Chinese Term:国际私法
Definition:The part of the national law of a country that establishes rules for dealing with cases involving a foreign element.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Translation:国家法律的一部分，用来处理与国外事物相关联的法律案件。

Code:6637
English Term:private law
Chinese Term:私法
Definition:The branch of law dealing with such aspects of relationships between individuals that are of no direct concern to the state.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Translation:法律的一个分支，用来处理与国家无直接关系的私人间的纠纷。

Code:6640
English Term:private sector
Chinese Term:私营部门
Definition:Segment of the economy not run by government, including households, sole traders, partnerships and companies.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:不是由政府控制的经济实体，包括家庭企业、独资商号、合伙企业和公司。

Code:6641
English Term:private transport
Chinese Term:私人交通工具
Definition:Transport performed with private means.&#10;(Source: ECHO2)
Translation:私人交通的手段。

Code:6643
English Term:privatisation
Chinese Term:私有化
Definition:The transfer of ownership or control of  a government enterprise or other governmental property to a non-public, non-official company, organization or individual, either through sale or through the establishment of a special enterprise outside direct government control.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:政府或其它政府财产控制的非公开、非官方的所有制企业，通过出售或通过政府直接控制的境外企业来运营。

Code:6645
English Term:proboscidean
Chinese Term:长鼻类
Definition:An order of herbivorous placental mammals characterized by having a proboscis, incisors enlarged to become tusks, and pillarlike legs with five toes bound together on a broad pad.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:具有长鼻，门牙扩大并具备草食性特点的动物。

Code:6646
English Term:procaryote
Chinese Term:原核生物
Definition:Organisms (i.e. prokaryotes) whose genetic material (filaments of DNA) is not enclosed by a nuclear membrane, and that do not possess mitochondria or plastids. Bacteria and cyanophyta are the only prokaryotic organisms.&#10;(Source: ALL)
Translation:生物（即原核生物），其遗传物质（DNA的细丝）不是核膜封闭式的，不具备线粒体或质体。细菌和蓝藻是唯一的原核微生物。

Code:6647
English Term:procedural law
Chinese Term:程序法
Definition:Law which prescribes method of enforcing rights or obtaining redress for their invasion. Laws which fix duties, establish rights and responsibilities among and for persons, natural or otherwise, are "substantive laws" in character, while those which merely prescribe the manner in which such rights and responsibilities may be exercised and enforced in a court are "procedural laws".&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Translation:法律规定的行使权利或获取权利的申诉方法。在固定的权利和义务之间建立责任关系，是一种“实质性的法律”，相比那些只规定了方式的法律条文，这种权利和责任可以行使在法院强制执行的“程序性法律”中。

Code:11055
English Term:process analysis
Chinese Term:过程分析

Code:6654
English Term:process technology
Chinese Term:生产工艺学
Definition:Any technical strategies, methods or tools used for the conception, design, development or implementation of any system.&#10;(Source: APD / SCP)
Translation:任何技术策略、方法或工具用于构思、设计、开发或任何系统的实现。

Code:6655
English Term:process water
Chinese Term:工艺用水
Definition:Water used in a manufacturing or treatment process or in the actual product manufactured. Examples would include water used for washing, rinsing, direct contact, cooling, solution make-up, chemical reactions, and gas scrubbing in industrial and food processing applications. In many cases, water is specifically treated to produce the quality of water needed for the process.&#10;(Source: WQA)
Translation:在制造或处理过程中，或在实际产品生产过程中使用的水。例子包括用于洗涤、漂洗、直接接触、冷却、化学反应和气洗涤工业和食品加工应用程序中使用的水。很多的情况下，水是用来专门处理生产过程所需的水质。

Code:13167
English Term:processed agricultural produce
Chinese Term:农产品处理
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:13199
English Term:processed foodstuff
Chinese Term:加工食品
Definition:Food which has been treated to improve its appearance or to prevent it going bad.&#10;(Source: PHCa)
Translation:经过处理的食物，以改善其外观或防止变质。

Code:6650
English Term:processing
Chinese Term:过程
Definition:The act of converting material from one form into another desired form.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:把材料从一种形式转换成另一种形式所需的过程。

Code:6658
English Term:producer liability
Chinese Term:生产者责任
Definition:Obligations, responsibilities or debts imposed upon all members of an industry that manufactures or produces a product or service causing injury or harm to a consumer and apportioned according to each member's share of the market for the product.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation:将义务、责任或债务强加于所有成员的制造方式，或将生产的产品或提供的服务所造成的伤害或对消费者的危害分摊到每个生产成员。

Code:6660
English Term:product
Chinese Term:产品
Definition:Something produced by human or mechanical effort or by a natural process.&#10;(Source: AMHER)
Translation:由人类或机械劳动或通过一个自然的过程生产的物品。

Code:129
English Term:product advertising
Chinese Term:产品广告
Definition:The creation and dissemination of paid announcements or public notices to draw attention to goods, services or events offered by some entity, usually for purchase.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:以通知或公告的传播方式提醒大家注意某个产品，该服务是付费的，通常提供的一些实体的采购。

Code:6661
English Term:product comparison
Chinese Term:商品比较
Definition:Comparison of products or processes to identify those having reduced environmental impacts.&#10;(Source: DIZAMBa)
Translation:产品或过程的比较，以确定那些能减少对环境的影响。

Code:6662
English Term:product evaluation
Chinese Term:产品评估

Code:6663
English Term:product identification
Chinese Term:产品标识
Definition:Attaching a notice to a product or container bearing information concerning its contents, proper use, manufacturer and any cautions or hazards of use.&#10;(Source: KOREN)
Translation:附加到产品上的信息，包括其产品内容、如何正确使用的信息、制造商和任何警告或使用危险的说明。

Code:6664
English Term:product information
Chinese Term:产品信息
Definition:Factual, circumstantial and, often, comparative knowledge concerning various goods, services or events, their quality and the entities producing them.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:关于各种产品、服务或事件的事实信息，间接信息以及比较信息，包括其质量和生产它们的厂家。

Code:6675
English Term:product liability
Chinese Term:产品责任
Definition:1) The legal liability of manufacturers and sellers to compensate buyers, users, and even bystanders, for damages or injuries suffered because of defects in goods purchased.&#10;2) A tort which makes a manufacturer liable if his product has a defective condition that makes it unreasonably dangerous to the user or consumer.&#10;(Source: BLACK)
Translation:1）由于购买商品中的缺陷而使用户受到损害或损伤的，甚至旁观者损伤，制造商及销售商必须补偿买家、用户。这是制造商应承担的责任。2）侵权行为。

Code:10935
English Term:product life cycle
Chinese Term:产品生命周期
Definition:A product life cycle includes the following phases: acquisition of raw materials, production, packaging, distribution, use, recyling, and disposal.&#10;(Source: HELIOSa)
Translation:产品的生命周期包括以下几个阶段：原材料、生产、包装、销售、使用、回收和处理。

Code:6676
English Term:product standard
Chinese Term:产品标准
Definition:A standard which prescribes aspects of the physical or chemical composition of products which have potential for causing environmental damage or the handling, presentation and packaging of products, particularly those which are toxic.&#10;(Source: GRAHAW)
Translation:对产品明文规定的，关于可能会造成环境损害的、尤其是有毒的产品包装的物理或化学组成方面的标准。

Code:13299
English Term:production policy
Chinese Term:生产政策
Definition:Measures and activities promoted by governments aiming at the structural definition of the productive apparatus.&#10;(Source: NDGIUR)
Translation:由政府实施的措施和活动，来促进生产的结构化调整。

Code:6670
English Term:productivity
Chinese Term:生产力
Definition:The amount of output or yield per unit of input or expenditure achieved by a company, industry or country.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:以公司、工业或国家为单位的输出或输入产量。

Code:6672
English Term:productivity trend
Chinese Term:生产力趋势
Definition:The general direction or tendency in the measurement of the production of goods and services having exchange value.&#10;(Source: ISEP /  RHW)
Translation:商品生产和服务交换价值度量中通用的指标或趋势。

Code:14847
English Term:professional society
Chinese Term:专业社团
Definition:A group of persons engaged in the same profession, business, trade or craft that is organized or formally structured to attain common ends.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:由一群从事同一行业和业务的人构成的组织。

Code:6678
English Term:profit
Chinese Term:利润
Definition:An excess of the receipts over the spending, costs and expenses of a business or other commercial entity during any period.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:商业机构在运营期间的收益。

Code:6681
English Term:prognostic data
Chinese Term:预报数据

Code:6705
English Term:programme
Chinese Term:程序

Code:6708
English Term:progress line
Chinese Term:进度线
Definition:A diagrammatic presentation of observed data in the sequence of their occurrence in time, in the context of water flow.&#10;(Source: ECHO1)
Translation:事件序列以观测数据的图解方式来演示。

Code:6709
English Term:prohibition
Chinese Term:禁令
Definition:An interdiction or forbidding of an activity or action by authority or law.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:法律所禁止的行动。

Code:6710
English Term:project
Chinese Term:项目
Definition:The complex of actions, which have a potential for resulting in a physical change in the environment.&#10;(Source: LANDY)
Translation:在各种环境中产生物理变化的复杂行为。

Code:10067
English Term:promotion of trade and industry
Chinese Term:对贸易和工业的促进
Definition:Any activity that encourages or supports the buying, selling or exchanging of goods or services with other countries, which could include marketing, diplomatic pressure or the provision of export incentives such as credits and guarantees, government subsidies, training and consultation or advice.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:鼓励或支持购买、销售或交换商品的活动，包括营销、外交压力或提供出口优惠政策，如信用和保证、政府补贴、培训和咨询或意见等。

Code:6718
English Term:propagation process
Chinese Term:传播过程
Definition:Process by which a disturbance at one point is propagated to another point more remote from the source with no net transport of the material of the medium itself; examples include the motion of electromagnetic waves, sound waves, hydrodynamic waves in liquids, and vibration waves in solids.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:从某一点传播到另一个点的传输过程；如在固体中传播的电磁波、声波、水波和振动波等。

Code:6720
English Term:propellant
Chinese Term:推进物
Definition:A gas used in aerosol preparations to expel the liquid contents through an atomizer.&#10;(Source: UVAROV)
Translation:用来以雾化的方式推进物体的液体。

Code:6724
English Term:properties of materials
Chinese Term:材料的性能
Definition:The physical and chemical characteristics of the substances or parts of  which a thing or object is made.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:物质的物理和化学特性。

Code:6728
English Term:property protection
Chinese Term:产权保护
Definition:That benefit or safety which the government affords to the citizens to insure their individual or corporate right to exclusive enjoyment and disposal of property, money and any other thing tangible or intangible that represents a source of income or wealth.&#10;(Source: LLL)
Translation:政府提供的一种保障，以确保个人或企业的财产、资金和任何其它有形的或无形的财产不受侵害。

Code:6736
English Term:propulsion technique
Chinese Term:推进技术
Definition:Technique for causing a body to move by exerting a force against it.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:对物体施加反作用力来推动该物体的技术。

Code:6737
English Term:prosecution
Chinese Term:起诉
Definition:The pursuit of legal proceedings, particularly criminal proceedings.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Translation:根据法律程序提出诉求，尤其指刑事诉讼。

Code:6739
English Term:prosperity
Chinese Term:繁荣
Definition:State of being prosperous; wealth or success.
Translation: 富裕或成功的状态。

Code:6740
English Term:protected area
Chinese Term:保护区
Definition:Portions of land protected by special restrictions and laws for the conservation of the natural environment. They include large tracts of land set aside for the protection of wildlife and its habitat; areas of great natural beauty or unique interest; areas containing rare forms of plant and animal life; areas representing unusual geologic formation; places of historic and prehistoric interest; areas containing ecosystems of special importance for scientific investigation and study; and areas which safeguard the needs of the biosphere.&#10;(Source: DODERO /  WPR)
Translation:部分特别限制的保护地。包括为野生动物提供栖息地保护的大片土地；具有独特的自然美景或感兴趣的地区；这些地区有罕见的植物和动物，代表不同寻常的地质地貌；史前古迹名胜；其中含有科学调查和研究的特殊重要性。对生态系统保护和生物圈生态平衡保护有重要作用。

Code:6743
English Term:protected landscape
Chinese Term:保护景观
Definition:Natural or man-made areas which have been reserved for conservation, scientific, educational and/or recreational purposes.&#10;(Source: RRDA)
Translation:自然的或人为的保留区，用作保护的、科学的、教育的或娱乐用途。

Code:10212
English Term:protected marine zone
Chinese Term:海洋保护区
Definition:Sea area where marine wildlife is protected.&#10;(Source: PHC)
Translation:对海洋野生动物进行保护的区域。

Code:6746
English Term:protected species
Chinese Term:受保护物种
Definition:Threatened, vulnerable or endangered species which are protected from extinction by preventive measures.&#10;(Source: RAMADE)
Translation:对受威胁或濒危灭绝的物种采取的预防保护措施。

Code:6749
English Term:protection from neighbours
Chinese Term:来自邻居的保护

Code:10670
English Term:protection of animals
Chinese Term:动物保护

Code:6750
English Term:protection of birds
Chinese Term:鸟类保护

Code:6752
English Term:protection of species
Chinese Term:物种保护
Definition:Measures adopted for the safeguarding of species, of their ecosystems and their biodiversity.&#10;(Source: ADMIN)
Translation:为维护鸟类的生态平衡及其多样性采取的措施。

Code:6753
English Term:protection system
Chinese Term:保护系统
Definition:A series of procedures and devices designed to preserve people, property or the environment from injury or harm.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:旨在保护人民财产或环境不受损害的过程。

Code:11662
English Term:protective measure
Chinese Term:保护措施
Definition:Any precautionary action, procedure or installation conceived or undertaken to guard or defend from harm persons, property or the environment.
Translation:任何预防措施，以防止或捍卫财产或环境不受损害。

Code:6755
English Term:protein
Chinese Term:蛋白质
Definition:Any of a class of high-molecular weight polymer compounds composed of a variety of alfa-amino acids joined by peptide linkages.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:一种高分子聚合物，由一种α-氨基酸和各种肽组成。

Code:13198
English Term:protein product
Chinese Term:蛋白质产品
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:6758
English Term:protocol
Chinese Term:协议
Definition:1) The original draft of a document.&#10;2) An international agreement of a less formal nature than a treaty. It is often used to amend treaties.&#10;(Source: DICLAW)
Translation:1）原始文件草案。2）非正式条约性质的国际协议。它经常被用来修改条约。

Code:6759
English Term:protozoan
Chinese Term:原生动物
Definition:A diverse phylum of eukaryotic microorganisms; the structure varies from a simple uninucleate protoplast to colonial forms, the body is either naked or covered by a test, locomotion is by means of pseudopodia or cilia or flagella, there is a tendency toward universal symmetry in floating species and radial symmetry in sessile types, and nutrition may be phagotrophic or autotrophic or saprozoic.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation: 真核微生物，结构简单的单核原生体。

Code:6760
English Term:province
Chinese Term:省
Definition:A geographic area of some considerable extent, smaller than a continent but larger than a region, which is unified by some or all of its characteristics and which can therefore be studied as a whole. A faunal province, for example, has a particular assemblage of animal species, which differs from assemblages in different contemporaneous environments elsewhere.&#10;(Source: WHIT)
Translation: 特定大小的地域，比大陆小，但比一个地区大，它具有一些特性，因此作为一个整体加以研究。

Code:14970
English Term:provincial/regional authority (D)
Chinese Term:地区管理局
Definition:The power of a government agency or its administrators to administer and implement laws and government policies applicable to a specific political subdivision or geographical area within the state.&#10;(Source: BLD)
Translation:一个政府机构或行政权力机构，在特定的政治分支或地区管理和执行国家法律和政府政策。

Code:14968
English Term:provincial/regional law (D)
Chinese Term:省/地区法律

Code:10691
English Term:pruning
Chinese Term:修剪
Definition:The cutting off or removal of dead or living parts or branches of a plant to improve shape or growth.&#10;(Source: AMHERa)
Translation:切断植物的部分分支，以改善植物的生长。

Code:6773
English Term:psychic effect
Chinese Term:精神效应
Definition:A result or consequence stemming from mental processes that create or influence human consciousness and emotions.&#10;(Source: RHW / SMD)
Translation:造成或影响人的意识和情感的心理过程。

Code:6774
English Term:psychological effect
Chinese Term:心理效应

Code:6775
English Term:psychological stress
Chinese Term:心理应激
Definition:Strain or disequilibrium of the mind especially in its affective or cognitive functions, or the physical or mental stimulus, agent or experience that causes such an imbalance.&#10;(Source: SMD / MED)
Translation:应变或心灵的不平衡，特别指情感或认知功能，或受到身体上或精神上的刺激，导致这种不平衡。

Code:6776
English Term:psychology
Chinese Term:心理学
Definition:The science that deals with the functions of the mind and the behaviour of an organism in relation to its environment.&#10;(Source: MGH)
Translation:研究心灵和机体行为与环境的关系的科学。

Code:6777
English Term:psychosomatic effect
Chinese Term:身心效应
Definition:Any result pertaining to the influence of the mind or higher functions of the brain upon the operations of the body, particularly bodily disorders or diseases.&#10;(Source: SMD)
Translation:心灵或大脑功能受到影响的结果，特别是身体疾病。

Code:6778
English Term:psychosomatic illness
Chinese Term:身心疾病
Definition:Illness arising from or aggravated by a mind-body relationship.&#10;(Source: GILP96)
Translation:来自身心的疾病。

Code:10904
English Term:public
Chinese Term:公众
Definition:The community or people in general or a part or section of the community grouped because of a common interest or activity.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:因共同的利益而被划分为不同的社会阶层。

Code:6784
English Term:public access to land
Chinese Term:公众区域
Definition:The right or permission for all persons of a community to use government owned geographic areas such as parks, campgrounds and historical sites.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:诸如公园、营地、历史古迹等区域，允许公众进入的区域。

Code:6785
English Term:public action
Chinese Term:公共行动
Definition:A measure or provision taken on behalf and with the consent of the general populace.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:在民众同意的前提下采取的措施。

Code:11032
English Term:public aid
Chinese Term:公共援助
Definition:Government aid in the form of monies or food stamps to the poor, disabled, aged or to dependent children.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:用来援助贫困、残疾、老人和孤儿的政府资金。

Code:10892
English Term:public attendance
Chinese Term:公众旁听
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:10274
English Term:public awareness campaign
Chinese Term:宣传运动
Definition:An organized, systematic effort through various communications media to alert the general population of a given area to anything of significant interest or concern.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:通过有组织的、系统的努力，关注某一地区的重要利益或关注点。

Code:6787
English Term:public bath
Chinese Term: 公共浴室
Definition:A place having baths for public use.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation: 供公众使用的洗澡场所。

Code:11530
English Term:public benefit inquiry
Chinese Term:公共利益调查
Definition:An investigation, especially a formal one conducted into a matter of public utility by a body constituted for that purpose by a government, local authority, or other organization.&#10;(Source: CED)
Translation:通过政府、地方当局，或其它组织进行的公共事业问卷调查。

Code:6788
English Term:public building
Chinese Term:公共建筑
Definition:A building to which there is free access by the public and which is available for the use of a community.&#10;(Source: HARRISa /  CEDa)
Translation:公众可自由进出和使用的建筑。

Code:13269
English Term:public contract
Chinese Term:公共合同
Definition:Any contract in which there are public funds provided though private persons may perform the contract and the subject of the contract may ultimately benefit private persons.
Translation: 合同中私人可以执行的部分，该合同最终有利于私人为公共活动提供资金。

Code:13249
English Term:public debt
Chinese Term:公共债务
Definition:The total amount of all government securities outstanding. This is also frequently termed government debt.&#10;(Source: AMOS2)
Translation:所有未偿还的政府债券的总额。常被称为政府债务。

Code:11522
English Term:public discussion
Chinese Term:公众讨论
Definition:Consideration, commentary by argument or informal debate on some issue that is open and of concern to the general populace.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:与大众利益相关且向大众开放的审议过程，一般通过争论和评论的方式。

Code:6790
English Term:public domain
Chinese Term:公共领域
Definition:That which can be accessed, used and shared by the general populace without restrictions, penalties or fees.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation:可以被访问、使用和共享的领域。

Code:6791
English Term:public emergency limit
Chinese Term:公共紧急限制
Definition:No definition needed.

Code:11039
English Term:public expenditure
Chinese Term:公共开支
Definition:Spending by national or local government, government-owned firms or quasi-autonomous non-government organizations.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:国家或地方的政府开支，政府拥有的公司或半自治的非政府组织的开支。

Code:6793
English Term:public finance
Chinese Term:公共财政
Definition:The theory and practice of governmental money matters, including taxation, spending, transfer and property incomes, borrowing, debt and revenue management.&#10;(Source: ODE)
Translation:政府资金，包括税收、开支、收入和财产转让，以及借款、债务和收入管理。

Code:6794
English Term:public financing
Chinese Term: 公共财政
Definition:The act of obtaining or furnishing money or capital for a program, purchase or enterprise from the general population of a community or state, usually through government allocation of tax revenues.&#10;(Source: RHW)
Translation: 通常是通过政府的税收收入实现分配的行为，包括社会或国家，一般民众或企业进行的交易。

Code:10833
English Term:public function
Chinese Term: 公共职能
Definition:Activity carried out for the benefit of the community.&#10;(Source: NDGIUR)
Translation: 为了社会利益开展的活动。



